# 

*self-actualization is healthy self-realization on the path to self-transcendence*.

the characteristics of self-actualization lead to optimal health and growth

Overall, self-actualization was related to higher levels of stability and the ability to protect your highest level goals from disruption by distracting impulses and thoughts. Self-actualization was related to lower levels of *disruptive impulsivity* ("Get out of control", "Am self-destructive"), *nonconstructive thinking* ("Have a dark outlook on the future", "Often express doubts"), and a *lack of authenticity and meaning* ("Feel that my list lacks direction", "Act or feel in a way that does not fit me").

those with higher self-actualization scores were much more motivated by growth, exploration, and love of humanity than the fulfillment of deficiencies in basic needs. What's more, self-actualization scores were associated with multiple indicators of well-being, including greater life satisfaction, curiosity, self-acceptance, positive relationships, environmental mastery, personal growth, autonomy, and purpose in life.

self-actualization predicted greater work satisfaction and work performance, as well as greater reports of talent, skill, and creative ability across a wide range of fields

there was a significant (but small) correlation between self-actualization and humor ability

self-actualization did show a strong positive correlation with increased feelings of oneness with the world.

*Why is it that the most self-actualized people are those who are the most self-transcendent?*

If you want self-transcendence, embrace yourself:

"The goal of identity (self-actualization . . .) seems to be simultaneously an end-goal in itself, and also a transitional goal, a rite of passage, a step along the path to the transcendence of identity. This is like saying its function is to erase itself. Put the other way around, if our goal is the Eastern one of ego-transcendence and obliteration, of leaving behind self-consciousness and self-observation, . . . then it looks as if the best path to this goal for most people is via achieving identity, a strong real self, and via basic-need-gratification."

Self-actualized people don't sacrifice their potentialities in the service of others; rather, *they use their full powers in the service of others*(important distinction). You don't have to choose either self-actualization or self-transcendence-- the combination of both is essential to living a full and meaningful existence.

Deficiency vs growth motivation

those with deficiency motivation are more motivated by their lack of satisfaction and are defensive in reaction to threats to

their basic needs. In contrast, those who are motivated by growth are driven

more by exploration, creativity, and love for all of humankind (what

Maslow referred to as B-love, or Being-Love).

selfactualized individuals are those who have satisfied their basic needs to a

reasonable enough degree that they are not driven by the intense need to

fulfill the deprivation of their basic needs, and they are therefore freed up

to focus on health, growth, wholeness, integration, and the “real problems

of life”

