# 2014 Bios

Hi, I am Vincent Imbat.

My vocation is to have fun and heal the world.

Hi, I am Vincent Imbat.

I am intensely passionate about three interconnected questions:

1. What is the reality behind the universe, life, and our world?
2. What does that reality teach us about our very nature as human beings?
3. How do we, as individuals and as a whole, live according to these truths about universal reality and human nature?

I love learning, writing, and teaching the things that I learn from answering these three questions.

I love shaping my life and living it according to what I learn.

I love connecting with like-minded people - people who look at the universe the same way and who wants to contribute in one way or another through their lives in making the world more attuned to these truths.

I believe that this learning process I chose to dedicate my life into should be applied to how I myself look at the world and how I live my life.

The reason why I am so interested about these questions is that I want to answer a more personal question: “How should I live?”

What I learned is that our answers to these three questions should be allowed to guide us to how we should live our lives.

Our answers can be very different from each other but we should all strive to live according to our own truths. That is what is important.

As for me, I have chosen to let this continuos learning journey to tell the most genuine, most authentic values I strive to live by every single day.

What I have learned and what my life and body is telling me is to live every single day to the pursuit of enthusiasm which is intertwined with activities that provide:

• Creativity

• Movement

• Connection

I believe that to make the most out of our short life here on earth, we have to be interested about the reality behind what we see and experience in our surroundings. I believe that we should let that reality teach us about what life really is about and let that lead us to how we should live our lives. Ultimately, how we live our lives or, more accurately, our lives themselves should be treated as the most logical, easiest, and most powerful offering of service that shall change the world for the better.

I can’t think of a good label to identify who I am but sage or a sage-in-training works really well, I think.

Hi, I’m Vincent Imbat.

I help sage personality types make their lives more attuned to our Universe’s reality, so that the can be an example to other people and the world in general.

Hi, I’m Vincent Imbat.

Soulpreneur at [VincentImbat.Com](http://VincentImbat.Com). I aspire to be a yoga teacher, wellness and life coach.

What do I do?

I make a living as a freelance editor for studious undergraduate students and also a freelance writer and English teacher. You can say that language and writing come natural to me. Nevertheless, I am building a career as a holistic living teacher, a soulpreneur of sorts. That’s what I am really stoked at right now.

