# 2017-06-06 Eulogy

People I want to remember me

Precious

- [ ] controlled his anger
- [ ] knew he was not perfect but worked hard to develop himself
- [ ] he never gave up on his battle against depression and all the effects of it
- [ ] he was forgiving of my mistakes
- [ ] he tried his best to align his lifestyle to a more natural, more peaceful, and healthier way of living
- [ ] he shared my passion of seeing the world more
- [ ] he was always present whenever he was with me
- [ ] he helped me see who I really am as a person, he respected that, he helped me grow
- [ ] he gave me enough freedom and authority on matters that involve both of us
- [ ] he looked pass our differences, saw where we both agreed, nurtured that place, and made this relationship possible
- [ ] he was sad, sometimes, and he let himself to be sad, he welcomed negative thoughts and feelings because he believed they were still his children. He accepted life, both the beautiful and the ugly.

My child

- [ ] my father was always present when I needed him
- [ ] but he always reminded me that I was my own person, that I have my last say on the things that matter to me. I was always free
- [ ] my father was always there whenever I needed someone to talk to. He was my best friend.
- [ ] he raised me up in a place and situation where I could appreciate nature, life, and peace
- [ ] at the same time, he also prepared me for the frightening world out there.
- [ ] he and my mother were my first teachers. They taught me both deep knowledge and practical skill.
- [ ] my father impart to me a sense of deep care to others. This helped me appreciate the movement for a better world.
- [ ] my father was not always the strongest person - physically, mentally, and emotionally - and he allowed me to see that. His example taught me the lesson that I don’t have to be perfect to contribute something to the world. What’s important is that I always try.
- [ ] my father was a good provider, he always sustained me. But he also taught me and helped me understand the meaning of the market economy. He helped me see what is possible when we approach education, work, and money in a holistic and nonviolent manner.
- [ ] my father helped me discern what’s good and bad in the world but he allowed me to write my own rules of morality and he never judged me in following them, only reminded me of our shared values of peace and compassion.

Mama

- [ ] my son is the sweetest boy I know
- [ ] he’s the bravest person I’ve ever had the chance to sit with
- [ ] his perseverance in being better after his depression continues to give us hope
- [ ] we may have separated ways but he never let that totally divide us
- [ ] he values us, he spends time with us, and whenever he is able, treats us somewhere where we can experience more of the world with him
- [ ] he recognizes our efforts in raising him and helping him stand up after what happened. He never forgets.
- [ ] he has forgiven us for whatever shortcomings we had. He loves us for who we are and expresses what could make our relationship better and a way that is both loving and encouraging.
- [ ] he takes care of us now that we are no longer as strong as before
- [ ] he laughs with us, enjoys every moment he has with us, he is always present when he is around
- [ ] he lets me know how much he loves me, in an intimate and genuine way. I feel so happy that I am his mother.

Papa

- [ ] I miss my son so much. I will always miss him.
- [ ] I regret not spending more time with him.
- [ ] He reminds me of who I am not. I just hoped that I have not let that difference get between both of us.

Family

Close Friends

My audience_people who have read my writings_people I have helped

People I have worked with

\#evernote

