# 2017a Bio

HOME PAGE

Your ideal reader

Define their problem or desire

Communicate the big why

Share your qualifications

Ask them to subscribe

(Feature Box)

Change Your Habits. Change Your Life.

Get self-improvement tips based on proven scientific research.

Your best email…

I’m in!

No Thanks

(Bio)

Hi, I’m Vince Imbat.

I’m an author, contemplative, and activist. I write about the pursuit of a good life through the interconnections of science, spirituality, and social change in the context of Filipino culture.

I study a wide variety of fields - science, philosophy, art, and literature - and employ different methods of knowing to uncover specific ways in  which we can be better in the things that really matter - compassion, mindfulness, and health. Whatever I learn, I share in my email newsletter.

I don’t have all the answers and I myself am also a work in progress, but I’m happy to share what I’ve learned so far. Here is my full story. (—> link to [vinceimbat.com/about](http://vinceimbat.com/about))

(Mission)

The Mission

The central question I try to answer in my work is: How can we live a better life?

There is no single answer to that question. There are as many ways of living life as there are people. But there are answers that seem to be common to human beings and that science and other ways of knowing are consistently validating. Also, there are answers that are culture-specific and that work best for a certain subset of humanity.

I try to search for these answers, which are usually complex, and present them to you in a simple to understand form. What is the reality behind the universe? How do we as individuals live in alignment with this reality? How do we change society in a way that aligns with this reality?

Because answering the question of how to live a better life is an individual pursuit, I try to view my work as a personal mission to uncover my very own philosophy of living. I apply the knowledge I learn in my everyday life to test it, document it, and share it with you, not with an intention to convince you of anything, but simply to share what worked for me.

My ultimate goal is that through my work I can help you understand the world, help you use that understanding to inspire how you live your life, and present you with ways in which you can contribute to changing the world in a manner that feels good and right.

(Testimonials)

What Readers Think

I am humbled by what a handful of people have said to me about my writing. These are all people who are in the path to being the best version of themselves.

You have such a gift for connecting to a reader through your writing – there’s so much honesty and insight here, all so beautifully expressed.

– Jill T.

Writing and inspiring people run thru your veins and I am blessed to be part of it. – Danielle M.

Wow. Very powerful. Your words bring something profound about you to the page with such elegance and honesty. – Rob C.

Made me think of my current status in life. Good job. – Rhema T.

Very inspiring and enlightening. – Jonas T.

I just wanted to say I am inspired by your story. Your story must be read not only by people who are currently experiencing depression but everyone who wants to make themselves better…I hope that you will continue being an inspiration to many people out there who think that they can no longer move on from where they are right now. Thank you, Vincent! – Jamaeca E.

You’ve just been of mega service to my own growth and I thank you. Our values may change as we change, but the desire to be the best we can be remain the same. This is what your writing brings me, this renewed urge to be all I can be. Write on! – Maryse G.

Bravo, Vince! Your words here are spoken so truly and without disclaimer, unsureness or any doubt, and for that I am extra grateful to read them!…You said the words better than I could myself. – Dave U.

(Sign up)

I invite you to subscribe to my email newsletter below.

[Form]

My email address is…

[space]

Subscribe

You’ll get one email every _______.

No spam guaranteed. Unsubscribe any time.

