# 2021-01-28 (Thu) VD

Weight: 192.1 lbs

BMI: 26.9 (overweight)

Goal weight: 177.9 lbs

Daily calorie goal: 1921

Step goal: 10,00 steps a day (four or five miles)

My personal goal for today:

---

# Food

## Breakfast (9:00 AM)

- Quaker Oats Instant Oats cooked (1 cup) = 73
- Senyorita banana small (4 inches) = 72
- Honey (2 tbsp) - 64 x 2 = 128
- Total: 273
- Hunger and Fullness: I was already experiencing signs of hunger by 8 am, but drinking two small glasses of water seem to remove it. I ate breakfast at approximately 9 am.
- Notes:

## Morning Snack (10:20 AM)

- Wheat bread (2 slices) - 85 x 2 = 170
- Peanut butter (2 tbsp) - 95 x 2 = 190
- Total: 360
- Hunger and Fullness: I ate because I think I’ll feel very hungry if I wait for lunch.
- Notes:

## Lunch (12:00 NN)

- Brown rice (1 1/2 cups) - 216 x 1.5 = 324
- Fried chicken breast (1/2) = 158
- Cooked brocolli (1/2 cup) = 28
- Total: 510
- Hunger and Fullness:
- Notes:

## Afternoon Snack (4:00 PM)

- Cheesy bacon burger = 430
- Fries = 100
- Total: 530
- Hunger and Fullness: I will avoid this next time. My intention was simply to address a little hunger. What I had was more than what I need. I let Lea decide what I will eat. That’s my fault. Next time, I will be the one to decide what to eat.
- Notes:

## Dinner (7:00 PM)

- White rice (1 cup) = 206
- Pork sinigang (1 cup) = 190
- Brownie (1 piece) = 300
- Total: 696
- Hunger and Fullness: I wasn’t very hungry but I ate since it is free and convenient. It is one of the things I do when I go to Lea. Nevertheless, I did practice self-control. I stopped eating even before I finish. And I didn’t eat more rice.
- Notes:

## Total Calories = 2,369

---

Today I ate based on hunger and fullness

- [ ] Yes
- [x] Mostly
- [ ] Need to improve

---

# Exercise

Walking (Morning while buying stuff outdoors; Afternoon while going to Lea’s and Burger Garage)

- Duration: 30 minutes
- Notes:

## Total step count: 9,412

