# 2021-01-29 (Fri) VD

Weight: 191.7

BMI: 26.8 (overweight)

Goal weight: 177.9 lbs

Daily calorie goal: 1921

Step goal: 10,00 steps a day (four or five miles)

My personal goal for today:

---

# Food

## Breakfast (9:00 AM)

- Pandesal (3 pcs) 50 x 3 = 150
- Peanut butter (3 tbsp) 95 x 3 = 285
- Coffee (25.6 g) = 120
- Total: 555
- Hunger and Fullness: I could’ve eaten later, but I don’t want to risk it. I stopped eating when I was satiated.
- Notes: I need to change my spread. Peanut butter is too heavy in calories.

## Lunch (12:00 NN)

- Brown rice (1 cup) = 216
- Pork siomai (2 pcs) 74 x 2 = 148
- Beef chunks (1/2 cup) = 169
- Total: 533
- Hunger and Fullness: I wasn’t too hungry when I ate. But just about the right time. I was engaged in a good conversation, but also mindful of what I eat. I only ate one rice. And I’m already full.
- Notes:

## Snack (3:30 PM)

- Pandesal (2 pcs) 50 x 2 = 100
- Peanut butter (2 tbsp) 95 x 2 = 190
- Red velvet crinkles (1 pc) = 98.3
- Tea (2 cups) = 2
- Banana chocolate chip cookies (2 pcs) 125 x 2 = 250
- Total: 640.3
- Hunger and Fullness:
- Notes: It was a mistake to eat something before going to Maui’s house. Next time, if I am afraid I’ll get hungry, I should always bring an emergency snack that I can eat if needed (sky flakes), instead of eating something, in case I won’t have food where I want to go.

## Dinner (7:00 PM)

- Brown rice (1 1/2 cup) - 216 x 1.5 = 324
- Ginataang langka - 200
- Red velvet crinkles (1 pc) = 98.3
- Banana chocolate chip cookies (3 pcs) 125 x 3 = 375
- Total: 997.3
- Hunger and Fullness: I was already hungry so I needed to take dinner. Because I was too tired to cook , I just bought something cooked. I could’ve opted not to eat dessert, but my willpower was weak.
- Notes:

## Total Calories = 2,725.6

---

Today I ate based on hunger and fullness

- [ ] Yes
- [ ] Mostly
- [x] Need to improve

---

# Exercise

Walking (Going to Maui and going home)

- Duration: 30 minutes in total
- Notes:

## Total step count: 4,177

