# Life Work (09-05-2020)

**THE BIGGER PICTURE / PURPOSE**

Help the world heal, without asking for money, and without necessarily being a person of credibility.

Serve through developing yourself.

Serve through healing yourself.

In search of a way to live

- To understand (and find a way to live)
- To live it
- To document
- To share
- To help intimately
- To help widely

My mission is a big personal development project whose goal is to raise the self and help others do the same in an intimate way that feels good

Central question: How should I live?

Central answer: In a way that maximizes Ginhawa

To do important work is not the main thing.

The main thing is to feel ginhawa.

Prioritize feeling good.

My ultimate purpose is Ginhawa.

My vocation (that work that gives meaning) is the Practice of the Mind.

And that practice stands on the foundation of Health and Sustenance.

I am an explorer of the art of living

My most important work is feeling good.

It is my ONE THING.

The science and art of feeling good.

Who are my models on the art of feeling good?

If I'm gonna serve other people (either through a transactional business or through gifting), I'm only going to put my energy into one thing: Ginhawa.

If I am to focus and be monogamous, this space will be it.

Why I’m blogging

- To create a habit
- To honor my intellectual drive
- To find answers
- To be part of a community
- To share my discoveries

---

**WHAT TO BUILD / PRINCIPLES**

a philosophy of life design to follow

Components of my work

1. Philosophy
2. Life alignment
3. Real world application

Life work trifecta

1. Answering how to live.
2. Living it.
3. Writing about it.

I am blogging and writing about my lifestyle.

- I should be writing and picturing my life as it unfolds

Study with lots of reading

Experiential study project

Create a life curriculum (middle way: not too structured, not too flexible)

Live the curriculum

Share the process to others

Offer the curriculum to others in an intimate retreat

Help people one on one

Mantra: My life is my message

- What’s the message to embody?
- How to live the message? (Personal transition)
- How to share the message? (Blog, Book)
- How to help others live the messge? (One on one, workshops, Community organizing)

So what is it that you want to do?

- Stay on a comfortable space
- Have long hours of learning
- Making sense of what I am learning then writing and sharing my findings to others
- Learning physical and practical work
- Conversing with friends
- Visiting places
- Being with communities
- Playing
- Being with Nature
- Destroying the monotony

The craft is scholarship, the practice of the mind.

Writing is simply one part of it.

What is your bigger mission project?

- To create an accurate worldview.
- To create a resource center for it.

I want a career that combines all of these.

- Philosophy
- Healing
- Flourishing
- Economics
- Social Change

::What is my style?::

::I am like James Clear and Steve Patterson but also Austin Kleon.::

::James Clear's dedication for self-improvement (how to live).::

::Steve Patterson's dedication for honesty and truth.::

::And Austin Kleon's creative freedom, fun, self-actualization.::

::Throw in here Jacob Lund Fisker's simplicity, renaissance advocacy.::

::And then Ben Hewitt's writing and connection with nature.::

::If I should be an expert about anything it will be about the art of living.::

My main work is answering the question "How should I live?" and along the way I am hoping to construct a comprehensive philosophy and practice of the "good life".

My first job is to make myself feel good.

My second job is to help the people around me feel good.

My third job to help as much people as I can feel good.

Mission first, business-second

The goal is to talk about stuff you care about. Not build a $10 million business.

---

**STRATEGIES**

Own your story.

- Look for your message within your story.
- It is the only credible content you can offer.
- No one can take that away from you.
- Use your story to differentiate yourself.
- Connect it with your grander theme.

Popularize philosophies and methods

The blog is a diary.

A chronicling device.

A vehicle to document the journey then share it eventually.

Documentation is more important than the sharing.

Because the documentation is personal.

Perhaps create a very personal blog.

Then filter what could be shared to others.

Early on, differentiate between the things that should not be shared (at least right now) and those that should be.

The things that should be shared would include

- Creative projects
- Studies
- Books

The things that shouldnt be shared are those honest healing musings that should go in a private diary.

Perhaps keep an app for this.

Tensegrity of goals

- If you can combine health, sustenance, meaning into a single life work that surrounds Ginhawa, then less time management.

Primary, secondary, and tertiary fulfilment of the purpose

- Primary: Do anything that makes you feel good.
- Secondary: Share/Teach it
- Tertiary: Heal others

I need a monthly field work

- Travel to Nature
- Do creative art
- Creative Personal Essay
- Photograph
- Poetry

Who do I already know who might be interested in being part of my audience?

Cultivate a relationship one-on-one then invite them to join your readership later on.

Create every day.

Share every day.

But do it in a way that's easy.

I have a story, a message to tell. I wanna tell it. In the process, I'm going to sell some of it and others I'll be giving away in the spirit of the gift.

The freedom that this message and business will create, I will use in my other hobbies

In this world, you are fighting for attention. If your main mission is offered only for Filipinos, you might find there really are not a lot of like-minded people here. Try to think internationally. You can engage an international audience without totally letting go of your Filipino identity.

Researching various fields of knowledge and extracting answers to "How should I live?

No. You cannot leave off the difficult fields of knowledge. If you want your ideas to be bullet-proof, you need to include them.

Your job is to make the complicated understandable for the novice.

Build what it is you want to build

And get it out there as wide as possible

Until it gets to the right audience

James Clear’s writing advice

Dump things in one notebook

When you write go to that notebook and aggregate a few notes into article

Habit 1 cataloguing

Habit 2 write

- First thing in the morning or late at night
- Focus on the first 20 secs that start a habit
- Limit the scope but stick to the schedule
- Consistency is more important than the quality (at least at first)

How can I make blogging fun?

Generating happiness is the bigger project. How will it be done? Have I delineated this already? This is the bigger question.

What I will talk about

- What is happening in my life
- What I am learning
- My application of what I am learning
- Results

I can use the blog to gamify my life.

- Talk about the problem
- Tell what needs to be done
- Do it
- Report

By documenting my journey, I create a repository of how I am changing my life. The number of projects recorded could be the XP points I accumulate.

I need a supportive blogging community.

Blog will be a documentation of

- Philosophy
- Life journey
- Poetry
- Photographs
- Projects
- Etc.

Blogging means writing for others and myself.

The other kind of writing that I do, journaling, is writing for myself alone.

Thus, my blog plan's intention is

1. Writing for myself
2. Writing for others

Given that it is a different practice from journaling, I should give blogging a space of its own.

Journaling happens

1. In the morning in my five minute journal.
2. In the afternoon when I am out in the fields.
3. In the evening.

Of course, some journaling notes will find their way into the blog.

But as much as possible, I should keep in mind that a blog piece will be read. And that there is a form of my writing work that I want to put out there.

But why share?

1. Accountability
2. Community (to find my right people)

---

**DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY, AND YEARLY HABITS**

::Focus on just being a good writer for one year.::

::Daily steps::

1. ::Write for myself. Write initial intimate thoughts in diary for at least five minutes.::
2. ::Look at your diary or journal for one specific thought. Develop and post on social media.::
3. ::Review highlights, do progressive summarization, produce a packet, or improve notes.::
4. ::Engage with at least one person in your community.::
5. ::Read at least one good article.::

Publish 1-3 articles per month.

Daily

- Reading - Read at least one good page
- Reviewing - Review highlights and improve notes
- Writing + Social media posting - post at least 1 good thought
- Social media engaging - engage with at least 1 person
- Developing - Produce one packet of an article

Weekly

- At least one good post

Monthly

- 1-3 good posts

James Clear’s Strategy

6 months research on how to build an email list.

Write guest posts on already-established blogs.

Simple strategy

- Write every Monday and Thursday-Have a consistent publishing schedule
- Choose a pace that you can sustain
- Choose a pace slow enough that you have enough time to put together two quality articles per week-8 articles per month, 2-3 are high quality
- Approach editors of sites with much higher traffic and ask them if they were interested in reprinting his work

Dedicated landing page

Guest posting -> targeted byline -> landing page

Send good and quality traffic

Write quality articles each week -> republishing them in different areas [ALTERNATIVE TO GUEST POSTING]

Post it in your site for 2-3 days

Link back - This article originally appeared in [VincentImbat.Com](http://VincentImbat.Com)

Corbett Barr’s Strategy

Toolbox model

- Blog post whenever you add something in your toolbox

---

**THE BUSINESS SIDE**

My art will be free.

But my mission will be very intentional (it is a mission + business; the business side is there to ensure that the mission will continue and also support my freedom to do art and other stuff).

I don't think I'll be able to do 5 years of more minimalism than I am currently doing/more extreme than what I already can.

I also want to balance NOW with the FUTURE. I could die any day, so why should I postpone starting something I want to do for 5 years.

Get a good day job.

Build a business that you could scale to profitability.

Use that to build a nest egg fast.

Invest.

Boom.

All of these don't have to take a lot of time. If I can build the business and take it to profitability in 5 years time then accumulate my nest egg for another five years, I would've been successful.

---

**OTHER OFFERS**

Other offers

- I mentor people one on one.
- I speak in small circles.
- I conduct nature retreats and educational travels.

---

**WHAT I DON’T HAVE TO DO**

Focus on doing the things that you enjoy.

If you don't enjoy the spotlight then don't.

There are things that matter more than fame.

You know you enjoy a low profile life surrounded by wonderful people engaging in a work that is satisfying with a body that is healthy.

Being so good at something is not my true motivation.

My true motivation is freedom and inawa.

All others are secondary.

No i am no going to become steve patterson and debate about which philosophy is correct. I will need philo to make my thinking sharp and my message clear. But once i am done, i will move on to more useful areas: the application of my philosophy.

---

**UNSURE POSSIBILITIES**

Philosopher

Healer

Artist

Write your own philosophy of the world

See it as a guide for your own use

A gift for your children

A contribution to the world

Then, as an extension, start a healing practice focused on depression

While doing all these, explore various art and crafts

---

**NEXT ACTIONS**

List people who you can apprentice from a distance.

Listen and consume everything that could tell you the processes of your mentors.

List people who you can ask to mentor you.

(In this case, look for writers/lifestyle entrepreneurs.)

Do expert interviews with people in your field who succeeded.

Things to look for:

- What are the things that matter?
- What are the things that they got good at?
- What skills were important?
- Which ones didn’t matter?

Review your writing career so far.

- Identify your specific weaknesses.
- Create little projects to improve each of these deficits.
- Use expert interviews with each skill you are developing.

Continue to be on the look out for these weaknesses while starting your blog.

Use the blog itself as a guide to get you to focus on what you have to do first or what you need to learn at particular times.

Create a schedule for this learning journey and stick to it.

Establish a habit of reading books so you could have as many perspectives as possible.

Study other writers to get good at writing.

Look for a community of writer/lifestyle entrepreneurs to be part of.

Use a marketing textbook to expose you to more concepts rather than just some random marketing book.

\#evernote

