I grew up in Springfield MO, and read constantly as a child, since it took far too long for my parents to warm up to video games and tv. I got totally engrossed in the stories. To this day, I finish most books in the same sitting, regardless of the size of the book or the time of day. I get that way with a lot of projects I start, too, be it coding or essays. Every pursuit has been conducted as if I were the protagonist in the fantasies I used to read, be it school, or soccer, or running, or band, or programming, or my mission in Belo Horizonte, Brazil. By that I mean that I go into something with the goal of becoming the best in the world, however unrealistic that may be. I've begun to find my niche in January, when I started school again and devoted long hours to studying computer science. It certainly seems like many in this space have a similar goal, to the detriment of other parts of their lives. Covid has certainly let that impulse run wild, since I took the opportunity to move back home and focus on many technical cs classes.
My family moved during my mission, to Lee's Summit, MO (Jackson County!). They're opinionated, active, and driven, but all in different directions. My brother is an accomplished tattoo artist, my sister has delved into the sporty Hawaii life, my other sister fully embraces the bubbly cheeleader life, and the youngest sister devotes passionate care and time to her group of friends and family. Mom is climbing the ladder of her nursing job as manager of a wound care unit, and my dad is struggling to reealy retire. His projects around the house and in project purchases cannot be numbered. I, the idyllic basement-dweller, was easily reintroduced into that environment as we bunkered down for the pandemic.
Last year, I returned to Provo, dipped my toes into classes, but dived into dating. It paid off, and I got married in December to the ideal woman. Finding a house was harder than classes. 