I went on a mission. That's church and community service, right there! As with many other of my life's projects, I set out to be molded into the best missionary on the face of the planet. Of course I failed, but only mostly! I enjoyed the interaction with many children of God in every stage of their journey back to Him, and I wore through 12 pairs of shoes as I walked alongside them as we got many miles closer. I came to understand that people can't be pressed to change, and that a leader must do the legwork in organizing thoughts and plans in order to gain the faith of those he leads. I served as a trainer, language teacher, and a district leader.
Since then, I haven't participated in much, opting to bunker down to protect the vulnerable in our society. I just did programming club projects, working over zoom and github to contribute to the building of a sort of social network for entrepreneurs. It got complicated, fast. Collaboration hit many snags that I learned from and hope to bring to future projects.




I'm entrepreneurial and obsessively curious. Thus, I'm making a startup company called Cambrio as part of the sandbox program here at BYU, whilst also working as a research assistant for the STAPL lab. In Cambrio I'm the sole developer until recently, building an android and ios app that helps burgeoning and already-popular authors craft original stories for their fans and get paid for it. Investors see potential, so armed with grant money my job now is to hire people and manage collaboration between them. In the lab, I'll be presenting soon on the paper (still under review) about cross cultural privacy norms between people in America and India on Twitter.