---
title: "2017-11-03 Manual"
date: "2022-10-12"
tags:
- "notes"
- "seedlings"
sr-due: 2022-10-15
sr-interval: 3
sr-ease: 250
---

**PARTS**

  

**Self Info**

Your self info are important details about yourself uncovered through different tools and methods.

The purpose of this section is to have an available reference to use for updating or improving your life plan.

This section was inspired by Jenny Blake’s Pivot.

  

**Purpose**

At particular moments in your life, you will be guided by ONE overarching purpose.

The way you express your purpose might be different in different points of your life.

But they are all interrelated.

  

**Life Accounts**

They are called life accounts because they are treated like bank accounts where we invest “time” in each for them to grow.

Each life account has a specific core desired feeling and purpose statement attached to it.

The sum of the purpose statements of my life accounts is my overarching purpose.

  

**Action Plans**

Each life account needs to have an action plan detailing relevant information about it.

Each life account action plan contains a purpose statement, an envisioned future, an inspiring quote, and finally SMART (specific, measurable, actionable, realistic, and time-bound) commitments

These commitments should be transferred to the Back Burner list for each life account.

  

**Back Burner**

Each life account produces a number of projects that can be pursued at any given time.

These projects are saved in a Back Burner list.

The Back Burner is divided into the life accounts: spirituality, health, relationships, sustenance, mission, and passion.

It includes an additional “Other” section which lists any intriguing new interests that don’t fall under the six life accounts.

  

**Weekly Big Rocks**

Houses a list of your activities for each life account in any given week.

  

**Calendar**

A monthly calendar which houses scheduled activities for a month. Each activity is  color-coded by life account to easily help you see how you balance your life accounts.

  

**Daily**

Your daily log is perhaps the most used part of your life design system.

It is where you plan out how to live each day of your life.

It contains 4 parts:

1.  Most Important Tasks - A list of your most important tasks for every life account at any given day.
    
2.  Morning Routine - A flexible list of tasks and routines from 6:00 AM to 12:00 PM.
    
3.  Afternoon Routine - A flexible list of tasks and routines from 12:00 PM to 6:00 PM.
    
4.  Evening Routine - A flexible list of tasks and routines from 6:00 PM to 10:00 PM.
    

  

**Active Projects Files (Desktop)**

Housed outside Evernote and in your Desktop.

Each active project will have its own active project folder which will house all related files.

  

**Project Plans (Desktop)**

Housed inside each active project folder, project plans contains the steps and actions needed to move a particular project.

  

**Inbox (Desktop)**

Contains items that needs to be processed before going to the Active Projects Files or Back Burner list.

  

---

**INSTRUCTIONS**

  

**[VINCEIMBAT.COM](http://VINCEIMBAT.COM) AS MISSION PLATFORM**

  

[VinceImbat.com](http://VinceImbat.com) shall be a self-directed learning platform where I report projects and general learning campaigns I’m doing with my life.

  

The framework I will follow in my mission is:

1.  Plan. Set parameters for the project.
    
2.  Learn. Learn everything about the project within the parameters set.
    
3.  Apply. Apply actionable knowledge derived from the learning process.
    
4.  Document. Journal or photography whatever could be shared.
    
5.  Share. Prepare material to be shared and share.
    
6.  Help. Help people intimately to make more use of what you learned.
    

  

**THE DAILY REVIEW**

1.  **Back Burner.** At 9:00 AM at the start of any day, review each section of your Back Burner list.
    
2.  **Completed Items.** Remove completed items.
    
3.  **Irrelevant Items.** Remove items that have become irrelevant.
    
4.  **MITs.** If you haven’t done it yet the night before, set projects, activities, and tasks for each life account for today.
    
5.  **Time-specific.** Go to your daily schedule and note which activities can be performed only at specific times
    
6.  **Life Account Blocks.** Mark your schedule with Life Account blocks (chunks of time attached to the pursuit of your life accounts that do not require you to decide in advance which items on your worksheet you’ll address during these times).
    
7.  **Moment Decision.** As you come towards a particular life account time block, decide which of the activities under each life account appeals to you at the moment.
    

  

**THE WEEKLY REVIEW**

1.  **Back Burner.** Set aside time each week to review each section of your Back Burner list.
    
2.  **Completed Items.** Remove completed items.
    
3.  **Irrelevant Items.** Remove items that have become irrelevant.
    
4.  **Weekly Big Rocks.** Set activities and tasks for each life account for next week and write them in your Weekly Big Rocks notebook.
    
5.  **Time-specific.** Go to your week-by-week Calendar and note which activities can be performed only at specific times.
    
6.  **Life Account Blocks.** Mark your calendar with Life Account blocks (chunks of time attached to the pursuit of your life accounts that do not require you to decide in advance which items on your worksheet you’ll address during these times).
    

  

Remember

-   Treat Life Account blocks as appointments.
    
-   Do not treat Life Account blocks as free time.
    
-   Schedule time for leisure and relaxation separately.
    
-   Maintain balance among interests throughout the month.
    

---

**JOURNALING SYSTEM**

  

**Physical**

-   Use only one physical journal
    
      
    

  

**Digital**

-   Use one main digital journal
    
      
    
-   Process entries in this main digital journal (delete unnecessary, move them to individual notebooks

# References