---
title: "2022-07-22 seeds"
date: "2022-07-22"
tags:
- "seeds"
---

For appropriate notes, aspire to write lyrically (i.e., include yourself in the equation and how you feel about the truth).

Really study what lyrical philosophy is. Compile an anthology of lyrical philosophy. Learn from the best. Then write your own.

What to create
- beautiful books with photos and text that is lyrical philosophy, which someone will go back to again and again.
- Subjects are universal
- Place-based
- Romantic excursion (i.e., finds inspiration from walking in style or uses walking as fieldwork)

Some ideas

Do it a daily practice to capture lyrical philosophy through journaling, Talahardin, reading, photographing, and walking.

Perhaps improve my morning work.

Afternoon is collection. Morning is synthesis and should inspire what happens in the afternoon.

In the morning, field notes must be processed.

What brings me a sense of wonder?
- looking up at clouds
- Looking up at a starry sky
- Realizing I didn't choose to be here
- The serendipity of being alive at this moment at this time
- Meeting people instead of others
- The pets who arrived in my life
- Logic
- The platonic realm
- The brain

The talahardin and the time and effort invested in it makes sense if the work that I want to do is purely research.

But what if what I want to produce is poetry

The most important for me are the peak experiences. Metaphysics all these knowledge seeking I only do because I am looking for that feeling of joy.

My goal is to have more of these experiences. And to eternalize those experiences through poetry that hopefully will remind me of those moments and help others remember them.

The goal every day is to be able to write at least one lyrical philosophical paragraph, where thought and emotion and beauty are together and where the experiencer "I" is part of it.

We do not force this process. If nothing comes out that day then nothing comes out. When it does, put it on the daily note for that day and collect it ala Henry Bugbee.

In the morning, attempt to capture this by engaging in the world of thought: journaling, note-writing, and reading.

In the afternoon, use more feelings and touch: walking, photography.

If you can couple the piece with a photo, that'll be better.