Walking has been repeatedly explores as a tool for research, and why not. It is movement and there seems to be knowledge that is only generated through movement. Thoreau noticed this and made comparisons between books written indoors vs outdoors. How is this possible though, and how can we describe the potential of walking in traversing liminal identies?

What if this liminality is the new identity the new self. That there is no new self and what is only possible is new self becoming. I am still uncertain. But like I learned while being in between stories, uncertainty can be pleasurable.

Being in a liminal space makes one attentive, perhaps it is the feeling of scarcity, perhaps it is the feeling of unknown. Whatever the cause, we experience an unusual openness when facing dereliction. There is a void that needs to be filled, and everything is a candidate.

The neverending bridge as a parable of limen.

Everytime we traverse a liminal space, we seem to open a third one. And so the question of whether liminal states ever end is a valid question.

Traversing liminality through ambulatory autoethnography

Is it coincidental that liminality is traversed through a movement that metaphorically fits what being in a liminal space is?

If am no longer a JW, and yet I am currently unaffiliated to no other church, am I a non-JW, an atheist or agnostic (liminal categories).

I have a PWD card, but I don't seem to use it a lot. I don't commit to the identity. In almost all areas of my life, I exhibit hesitance. I am afraid to commit to anything. Perhaps this isn't fear, but a natural emotional reaction to being in limen.

As I am writing these words and making sense of my own state of limen, I am also in a new kind of limen.

I realize that being in limen fits well with my personal preferences. I prefer being around people who are unsure, who are careful to conclude, who always leave room for doubt rather than those who are very sure of themselves. Again, I am unsure whether this preference is due to being in limen or a personality.