---
title: Personal Disclosures
---

## Informal Disclosures
This website (coreypetty.com) serves as a place for me to write personal thoughts in a more academic and rigorous manner. Nonetheless, everything on this website is purely my opinion and does not reflect the opinion of my employer. Furthermore, please note that my Twitter account (twitter.com/corpetty) is mostly an entertainment venue and not a place for serious dialogue and announcements. While I may make some serious comments and announcements from time to time, everything on my Twitter account must be taken in jest. I enjoy humor and friendly banter, and thus I will often post sarcastic commentary. Please take everything on Twitter as humor. For a formal disclosure, please read below.

## Formal Disclosures
The views and opinions expressed on this website and on my personal Twitter account (@corpetty) are my own and do not, and do not purport to, reflect those of Logos/Status/Waku/Codex/Nomos/Vac/Hashing It Out or any other person or entity, unless expressly stated otherwise. The sole purpose of this website is to serve as platforms for me to express my personal views, in my personal capacity, on matters that interest me. As such, no person or entity other than me, is responsible for the content, or the verification or review of the content, included either on this website or posted on my Twitter account. All information on this website is provided in good faith and for general informational purposes only, and I make no representation or warranty of any kind, express or implied, regarding the accuracy, adequacy, validity, reliability, availability or completeness of any information contained on this website or on my Twitter account. In addition, none of the content on this website or on my Twitter account is, or should be construed as, investment advice.

The information published and contained on my Twitter account is provided for entertainment purposes only. I do not warrant or represent that any information placed and/or published on Twitter is reliable, accurate, complete, error free, verified, peer reviewed or free from defects. I make no representations or warranties whatsoever regarding such information, it is provided as is and should be used at your own risk. Additionally, I do not warrant, endorse, guarantee, assume responsibility or make any representation with regard to any information, product or service that is advertised, offered or provided by or through a third party on Twitter. I am not and will not be liable for the acts, errors, omissions, representations, or implied warranties, intentional or negligence, on my Twitter website. I am not and will not be liable for financial damage, expenses, or any other harm resulting directly or indirectly from the engagement or use of the content on my Twitter website.

All content on my Twitter wbsite in whatever form (text, photograph, illustration, diagram, advertisement, video, etc.) is provided purely for entertainment purposes only. It is not intended to be and should never be used in place of advice from any legal or finance professional.
