yeah i dont really think so either. I dont know cryptography as of yet, but I think the whole idea of nordic mythology being relevent is intriguing considering Odin saught to "see the runes" and have them "reveal their secrets" or what ever, which is what we are also doing. I think the Liber Primus also resembles the Codex Runicus, a old book written in runes supposedy about about scandenavian law. The whole Odin story sounds a lot like some of the ideas expressed in the literature references

As far as i understand, the nordic saw realilty as like a simulation that was made of runes. These runes were written on the trunk of Yggdrasil by these beings who lived at the bottom. Seeing these runes would allow you to "shape the world." Odin went on a quest to do so and eventually gained this abililty.

Well in the new Inquisition, one of the things Wilson describes is how our senses are not passive receptors of an objective world, but that only percieve a subjective mental representation of the world. Before we are conscious of a signal, the brain has already interpeted and edited it according to whatever language systems that it holds. This is also what wilson claims is the answer to his koan "who is the master who makes the grass green." Green is not an objective quality of grass, it is only so in our mental representation. This i beleive is what is refered to in question 3 of test.onion. 

He also discusses how out of the mass of signals our senses recieve, the brain will only focus on the ones that it considers important, discarding the rest, which again is what i believe is being refered to in question 7.

In something which wilson calls "meta-programming," we become aware of this process and are able to deliberatly increase the amount of signals consciously apprehended. We are then able to notice things we wouldnt have previously and see a new depth in objects that were once bland. Its like as Blake says: "The tree which moves some to tears of joy is in the Eyes of others only a Green thing that stands in the way." This is also what i think is being refered to when 3301 said "program your mind, program reality."