# Summary
> Over a decade after the Battle of Brindol and "The Event", there is a desperate call for adventurers. War Magic-wielding wizards have found their deaths on battlefields with the failure of their evocation and conjuration magics. The Lich of Endholme builds an army of undead after the destruction of the Wizard's Academy. The aggregation of power through death and destruction magics cause cults of nefarious gods to attract more followers despite clergy failing to demonstrate their god's presence through traditional means. Wars dominate the continent governed by attrition and strength rather than magic and strategy. 
> 
> At its center lies Bard's Gate. About a year ago, the Hunn army appeared as if out of nowhere, threatening the economic hub. Tenuous allies came to its aid, but have not been heard from since driving off the Hunns. Left with the skeleton of its previous defenses, Bard's gate faces many other threats: orcs, goblinoids, and other monsters. Adventurers are few and far between since clerics are no longer able to apply the power of their gods through healing and resurrecting magics. But the city of Bard's Gate and its people need those willing to face near certain doom, lest they be overrun by enemies, known and unknown. 
> 
> You have answered the call to join an adventurers guild. Bard's Gate, a city known for a its diversity of guilds, has never known such a guild and desperately needs it. Your contact has asked you to meet them in a sleepy village not far outside the walls of the city. Whatever your reasons, be them glory, gold, or gods, you have journeyed to the sleepy hamlet to heat them out.

 A compilation of Bard's Gate, the Lost Vault of Larin Karr, Keep on the Borderlands, an excerpt from the Crucible of Freya, and a couple of other modules that I will keep secret for now.