New scrolls every Jing day - Jing day 5

Lyric scoops up a jar of mattress & pillow ashes

We found the Jing elevator! but it needs a key

Lyric politely asked a door to open so it did

Next door had a brass knocker so Lyric used it and it unlocked and we opened it

Next door was a curtain and we were all afraid but it was literally just a curtain that looked so much like a door

New room with 4 doors, one is on a column, that appears to be a normal door. The column is hollow, with a chest inside. Lyric checks the chest for traps, and it opens.

Found 1 [Kobold painting](obsidian://open?vault=obsidian&file=rpg%2FAoife%2FParty%20Loot%2FKobold%20Exotic%20Painting)
and some wands

"Are you saying your penis is attached to your soul?"
"It can only do 1/7th of the things"
"Yours can do 7 things?"

Found a [Mask of Item Inspection](obsidian://open?vault=obsidian&file=rpg%2FAoife%2FParty%20Loot%2FMask%20of%20Item%20Inspection)

Next door is wooden door, no traps but has a suggestion. Door at the end of this room has another silver key door that we cannot pass through

Next door in the column room is a wooden door hinged at the top, no traps, no magic, but it is locked. Lyric attempts to unlock with the masterwork thieves' tools and that works

Opens to another small hallway with a door in the end, a door that is not a door, but is a curtain... we are afraid. No magic detected, Lyric checks for traps and it does not appear to be trapped. Curtain is fine.

Next door is iron door, no magic, no traps. Door is locked, Lyric attempts to open the door, fails, then succeeds. It explodes, per fireball! It was indeed trapped! Lyric evades, Aoife takes half, Sylvia takes full damage.

Next place appears to be large empty room. Aoife finds a secret compartment. Lyric does not find traps or magic on the compartment. The secret compartment contains 78gp and 387 silver pieces, as well as 1 set of [Pipes of Sounding](https://www.d20pfsrd.com/magic-items/wondrous-items/m-p/pipes-of-sounding/) 

Next door is a wooden door, hinged at the top. Lyric does not detect magic or traps, and we go through the same rigmarole as the other door. Takes us to a diagonal room with nothing in it.

Next door is boring apparently. But it leads to a big room with so many doors. The "Room of a Dozen Doors". In the center of the room is a 15 foot long wooden arrow, pointing straight down towards the southernmost door. Lyric goes to inspect that door, and it's an archway filled with mists. We get more pain! Luckily Aoife and Sylvia resist. Sylvia destroys the curtain to remove the curse but Lyric still has the pain.

Next door appears to be a wooden door. Sylvia finds more door and continues and it's just a room with a small lock box and a dwarf body draped over it. The dwarf's axe is totally busted, a [broken adamantine masterwork great axe](obsidian://open?vault=obsidian&file=rpg%2FAoife%2FParty%20Loot%2FAdamantine%20Masterwork%20Great%20Axe)

We gather all the scraps of the axe, so that perhaps Make Whole could fix it. Sylvia checks for traps and gets nat 20. Also it's not a real lock box. It's a masterwork adamantine box and the lock is actually a solid part of the box. Sylvia goes to lift and gets a nat 20 adamantine lift roll, so she lifts the pillar up and she has a pillar now wtf and she finds what's hidden underneath.

The chest by itself worth 1,000gp, not totally adamantine but enough to be pretty valuable.
Weighs 30 lbs

We went back to the 12 doors room and Sylvia tries a new door. Appears to be a wooden door. Sylvia checks for traps because Lyric is in pain. The door seems ok so Sylvia tries the door, but it's locked. She kicks the door with a nat 1 and she lands flat on her back. Aoife reflex catches her and it turns out she slipped on a banana peel. Aoife definitely laughs with nat 20. Lyric tries the lockpicking, fails, fails again, then gets nat 20. The clock swings around and points to a wooden door that just opens and nothing happens. It was pointed at the curtain we came through, which is now a door.

Anyway, the door opens and there's nothing in it. Then Aoife decides to use a Jing secret and illuminate all secret doors within 100 feet of the center of this room.

Nothing new illuminates but we know from the pillar room that things are available to highlight if possible

Sylvia enters the misty room with a rope tied to her waist. Lyric and Aoife hold the rope just in case. Sylvia is in a room where the doors are made of solid gold. She attempts to remove the hinges on the gold doors, but the hinges are on the inside. Sylvia attempts to open a gold door, but it's locked and has a keyhole. She tries to yell through the archway at us, but her voice doesn't pass through. She grabs a grappling hook to keep the portal open and comes back to explain things. We all go through the door, Aoife and Sylvia holding hands "for safety"

Now we are all in the room. Lyric inspects the first golden door. Sylvia is like "We're through the door" and Aoife lets her hand go lmao

They decide to enlarge Sylvia so she can try to blast the door open with the adamantine box

"The Bardic Book of Dynamic Entries" is apparently a book that Lyric read to get into rooms.

Sylvia currently has a strength of 31. First hit damages the door. Second hit takes the door down. And then something happens! The door loses its golden hue and a stone golem with golden runes pops out. It is a construct and Sylvia's sword is like "you better fuckin' draw me" and Sylvia agrees.

Sylvia is engaging the construct, Lyric is singing, but Aoife doesn't know what she should be doing here, since stabbing a rock seems like a stupid idea.

Aoife gets enlarged and pulls out the ringblade

Sylvia is like "can you get around him" and she's like "yeah" and then jumps straight into the golem and it's embarrassing and she takes damage

Sylvia does much better

Then Aoife does like 3x good attacks and Sylvia finishes it off

In downtime, Sylvia reads from the super book of learning

We were able to donate all our banked XP!