---
title: "{{title}}"
tags:
- blog
---

Posted this on Twitter. Prompted me to finally start this public blog. I'd publish everything on here, but my writing has thoughts that, well, shouldn't be public. Any interactions that could be questionable were always positive interactions from all parties. But my thoughts were not.

10:59am -07:00 (1690307982634)
Right now, this isn't what anyone is saying, but this is my (hot) take:
People are saying turning Twitter into X is a mistake. I disagree. If I remember right, X.Com was the original name of PayPal, so Musk has a connection to it. Model X and SpaceX are testaments to the same (yes, I know the consumer cars Tesla released spell out SX3Y, an anagram for sexy, but I stand by my conviction that the letter X has a special meaning to the man).
@elonmusk Musk overpaid for Twitter. The issue for him, the reason that he kept talking about the number of bots and the overplayed, exaggerated bot statistics, was that he was just paying too much for this website. His "cost per click"/"cost per mille"/cost per consumer was far higher than it should have been. He was buying the company just for their network and their worldwide reach. (of course, their near-instantaneous infrastructure was also good, but it wasn't the most important thing, because he can always hire engineers to replace their infrastructure). The same reason JP Morgan bought Frank.
But he's doing everything right. He gets a network, then he links it to X. Eventually, his hope is that X becomes a world-wide payment system, where you think about a car and a Tesla drives up to you and gets you to your destination, and the payment is handled in the background. The idea is there. With my background in neuroscience, I'd like to be on the Neuralink side of things, but I hope that my application will be by manual introduction.