---
title: 2024-07-05
author: ["Justin"]
date: 2024-07-05T00:00:00-04:00
lastmod: 2024-07-10T07:56:19-04:00
draft: false
---

<div class="outline-1 jvc">

## Agenda {#agenda}

<div class="outline-2 jvc">

### Tasks {#tasks}

-   [X] Chinese
    -   570!
-   [X] Reading
-   [X] Progress on anki gen
-   [X] Fix (try to) some of the CSS for this
-   [X] I remembered I need to fix the dates on the emacs side
    -   I forgot to add the date in the capture template for dailies, so I guess maybe whenever I did a quartz sync they messed up?'

</div>

</div>

<div class="outline-1 jvc">

## Notes {#notes}

<div class="outline-2 jvc">

### Reading {#reading}

<div class="outline-3 jvc">

#### <https://www.pipes.digital> <span class="tag"><span class="software">software</span></span> {#https-www-dot-pipes-dot-digital}

-   Like a weird visual programming thing for passing data from feeds and such?

</div>

<div class="outline-3 jvc">

#### <https://github.com/prefix-dev/pixi/> <span class="tag"><span class="software">software</span></span> {#https-github-dot-com-prefix-dev-pixi}

-   Package manager built in rust. Upon skimming, I assume basically building
    packages for python and R using rattler, which is basically conda. So, uh...
    conda abstraction layer?'
-   Honestly think it might be neat given how annoying it is to distribute python
    stuff. Generally I just use pipx (since, I mean, unless you're on an embedded
    system, the bloat doesn't really matter much)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="outline-1 jvc">

## Journal {#journal}

Fireworks make sleep weird. Okay, I'd `like` to get the GPT stuff  setup in emacs
today. Caught up on anki, so need to not get behind. I got the CSS
idiosyncrasies fixed (more or less) but noticed it's still kinda borked under tasks.

Also I want to get started on my anki LLM notebook! I need to study more CS/Math, etc.
 stuff.

Maybe some improvements to my crystow thing I made. It was a quick demo
just to get used to crystal syntax but I'd like to maybe add some stuff.

</div>
