I have lots of interests, and I'd ideally want to find a job that takes advantage of all of them, proportional to my interest in them. Who doesn't, right? I'm lucky to be interested in a fairly profitable field, too, which is computer science. So, I believe that if I lean on it, I can get some flexibility that'll let me explore entrepreneurship, economics, and maybe even foreign cultures and writing. I'd like to be an excellent speaker. I also imagine my future self to be someone that's in a position to help other people become legends because of their positive influence on the world. 
To get started, I took just about every prerequisite computer science class last year, and I'm looking forward to machine learning and entreprenuer courses in the next. My goal in college is to get only decent grades, instead focusing on leadership opportunities and real-world projects. BYU is definitely helping me towards that! Professors don't give A's out easily, yet I feel as if I've learned more from the classes I get poor grades from than from the classes I ace. The ecosystem of student projects is such that various business have emerged and flourished from this campus. Student organizations do good and will let me practice leadership and cooperation. What more could I ask?!
Spiritual fulfillment, clearly. I can't say much about that. My religion classes are good places to expound upon the scriptures, and the wards can focus better on a college kid's needs. But, covid has hit these aspects of BYU life the hardest. I hope, and truly believe, that my experience thus far is a shadow of what I will have yet. As I participate in my ward and fulfill my callings, I can hope to witness miracles here.

I want:
* Spiritual Fulfillment
* A positive impact that takes advantage of my talents
* A career fueled by fascination
So, I'm starting a business as part of a BYU program, and I'm research data science and NLP related topics in university research. I'll take as many artificial intelligence courses as are offered here. With my app development skills I'll help others with their startups if mine doesn't pan out. I may end up in philanthropy or in an NGO as a data analyst. I would also love to be a professor and research the cutting edge of machine learning. 
I'm just lucky that all of the fascinating options are typically well-paid, since my wife future children take precedence. I'm going to build the tightest family possible, and to do that, church activities and service will be the glue.