#recipe

RECIPE: (sorry for my bad english, I’m Italian btw) Ok then: First of all you should put the amount of black pepper you’d like to use (it depends on ur personal taste) on the cooking pan, turn on the cooker and toast it for something like 2mins. While it’s toasting, prepare your carbocream respecting these rules: 2 egg yolks per persone, never use the full egg. Pecorino (or parmesan if you like soft flavors) must ALWAY be much more than eggs, by mixing them you shouldn’t obtain a cream, you should rather end up with having a carbocream with a texture similar to tomate paste’s. Once the black pepper is toasted put it into the carbocream and mix. After doing this, pick another cooking pan, put water in it (not too much tho) and start boiling it. Then, in the same cooking pan as pepper put in guanciale (it’s really important to have guanciale, otherwise if you can’t find it go on with bacon, sigh) and turn the cooker on, and let it’s fats go out (the liquid you get is EXTREMELY important, that’s why guanciale’s better: it has way more fats than bacon), while you’re doing that probably the water will already be boiling, so salt it (only after it boils) and put the pasta. After you notice the bacon or guanciale is crunchy enough, remove it from the pan (watch out from not removing the fats liquid) and put the half of the fats it produced into the carbocream and mix it, now it will become much more similar to an ordinary cream. After cooking the pasta for 3/4 of the minutes you have to turn down the cooker, take some pasta water into a case or another pan (you have to pick up at least 3/4 dippers of pasta water, THAT’S REALLY IMPORTANT otherwise your dish won’t be even half as creamy as mine), then  drain the pasta, turn on the cookers on the guanciale’s pan (which now has only liquid fats) and after 30 secs put in it the pasta water, let it boil (it will boil very quickly, max after 25/30 sec) and then put in the pasta. Cook it the remaining 1/4 of the time eventually adding more water if you notice that there isn’t enough and here you go. If u notice a soft cream made of pasta water you know u did it well. Then turn off the cooker (IT’S VERY IMPORTANT TO TURN IT OFF), wait 15 sec and put in the pasta the carbocream, then mix and mix and mix until it’s as creamy as mine. Then just put bacon or guanciale on it and here you go!