---
Date: [[2021-10-20]]
Study: "John 1-4, BD: John; John, Gospel of"
---

These chapters reminded me aton of the first seasons of The Chosen. Like, more so than the others. Is it because both the Gospel of John and the tv show are focused on the perspective of the apostles? That would certainly be cool if it was the case. Neat observation, I guess. It comes from the order of the stories, I think, yet I may ask prof. whether it's the unique stories found in the gospel of John. It reminds me that I intend on really studying the comparison between the different gospels. I sincerely want to know the different perspectives and purposes between the four accounts. 

Logos. Fascinating observation from the beginning of class. Like, I always thought there was some crazy spiritual meaning concerning intelligence and creation, but the historical explanation for John 1:1 manages to both ground it and expand that idea. 

> without him was not any thing made that was made. 

This supports the idea that there was matter about, just unorganized. God/Jesus was the first creator/organizer, I guess. 

I prefer the way The Chosen depicted this miracle. In the church production, they manage to be a bit melodramatic, and it distracts from the actual majesty of the event. 

Question: Should I not cover my sins, but seek to bring them to light? Or should I just know that all is obvious before the Lord, and focus on doing things that are completely innocent and uncovered naturally. Like, John 3 says that every one that does evil hates the light and doesn't come to it, and the ones that do good do. But good people do evil. I mean, mostly good peole do some evil things. Should they, in seeking to become better, bring their evil works to light, or just focus on changing the works?