---
Date: [[2021-10-27]]
Study: "John 9-12"
---

What's with that light metaphor??

11:24 how does martha know about the resurrection?

Hate your life? Good. You get into heaven. 
For real, the priority should be eternal things, and life should be a passing thought.

John does seem to be a ton more explicit about Christs divinity. Super overt. He's like, the most Christian gospel author. A voice comes down from heaven and says that His name is glorified.
I really am curious now about how muslims and jews read the bible, like I talked about [[ss13#^89ffc1|here]].

Further questions about basic nature of Christ.
Why would Christ refer to the Father and get a response from heaven if the trinity was all three combined?
I watched the [[Teal_Andrew_2021_10_26_withQA_cutsweet.mp3|talk]] on tuesday by Andrew Teal, where he criticizes the church on how we focus so much on putting God into our conception of what an individual can be. Like, prescribing instead of describing. Especially in how we say our prayers. At least, that's what I caught. I'm not sure what he meant, entirely. 
Either way, the whole thing on Christs divinity is stated by a few scriptures that feel contradictory when we try to apply them to our mental models of what an individual is. How to reconcile it (or whether to reconcile it) is an interesting question.

Is the validity of John called into question? He came so late, and had so much extra stuff. Where did he get it? Was he an original apostle? Did he receive the extra stuff via ressurection. How was his stuff meant to be read, as the authoritative source, or just as an extra gospel? Were these records accessible to all, or just to a few? How did he go about publishing it all? 
There's no way I'll get all these questions answered in class today. 