---
Date: [[2021-11-15]]
Study: "Mark 15; Matthew 27; Luke 23; John 18-19"
---
Wow even the ones crucified with Christ reviled him. 
To choose your own time of death. Amazing. Did they really kill him, then? Or did he choose to die? Does only he have the authority to do so? Like, suicide is a sin because you are taking a decision away from God, right? So, can only Christ choose to die? Should a dying old man be allowed to choose to die? If Christ was the one to give up the ghost, why is it that they shouldn't be allowed to as well, if they spiritually feel like their work is done? Is there an essential difference between killing yourself, letting yourself be killed, and giving up the ghost?
Obviously, since he resurrected himself, the whole thing can't be really classified as suicide.
On that note, too, this whole passage is game changing because of the implications on death. Like other scriptures say, death has no sting now. Who cares what happens in this life, if I couldn't get it done or if it's dangerous and I might die or if I was cheated out of opportunities or if anyone got permanently disabled it was never permanent. It's all moot, like who cares who's rich I have as much time as I need to get whatever I need. I can spend my whole life wasting my time except for paying attention to spiritual things and I'll have an eternity afterwards. Who cares if I die trying to save my people's freedom or facing off against those who want to fight the church of God, because I can just resurrect later and it's totally whatever. 

Jesus just lets them yell and question and criticize. He riled and wound them up so much that they completely lost control before him, and in front of others, that must have been embarassing. 
What people were at his crucifixion, different than those in Jerusalem when he made his triumphal entry?
Did the jews know that God himself would come to them as their messiah? Did they know that jews would remain behind that wouldn't beleive him?

People like Joseph (that gave his sepulchre) are like humble rich and influential people today. They just want the priveledge of being able to give their resources to people and causes that make the most difference.