---
Date: [[2021-11-29]]
Study: "- BD: Paul  - Videos: The Road to Damascus (5:21); Unity of the Faith (3:32);I Have Kept the Faith (1:48)- Acts 9; Acts 22; Romans 1, 5-6, 8; 2 Timothy 1-4"
---
Was there really some substance on saul's eyes?? Gross. 
Did saul personally know nicodemos?
Barnabas wasn't afraid of saul. I wonder what he was thinking..

It's still fascinating to me how the miracles were all for the sake of the people watching. How could they not be? There were so many other sick and afflicted people in the world. Why not all of them be healed? I don't want to be cynical about it, but if it really was right in itself for these people to stop suffering, then it was right for everybody to be healed. These miracles are totally unfair. I don't have any issues with that, though, since I  pretty much get how life is unfair. That's what the atonement was for. It kind of highlights how spiritual things are more important than physical things, since the spiritual health of all those watching was the real purpose behind the physical miracles. Like, physicality and life is really just a means to an end. That end is our purpose here, in becoming more like God and defeating all our challenges through the gospel. The big theme in lots of religions is that physical stuff doesn't matter, and we shouldn't focus so much on what's immediately around us. 

Why don't we hear more about ananias? 
Paul literally sees the Father and the Son side-by-side. How can they still believe that they're literally the same person? 

He was prepared with Roman citizenship by God. I was prepared with American citizenship by God. We should use these blessings for good.