What's cool about Revelations is that, down the line, when the end of the world happens, it will be cool to see how it's all fulfilled. Like, a sort of poetic fulfillment of all that happens is going to be really cool to track. I'll just get out my scriptures and watch the news and sort of follow around with my finger.
I also wonder about the limitations of the author himself. Because, it is probably super hard to describe a heavenly vision like John experienced. I feel like you should really just read it loosely, you know, because she probably needs to resort to a lot of imagery and metaphor and stuff like that in order to truly get the idea across, because it's likely that a lot of the things I saw we don't even have words for or patterns of speech for in order to explain. It's all another plane of existence so it's definitely going to be radically different from what we see and hear and talk about every day.
Like, imagine if John was given a vision of just the modern world right now. We may not even recognize what he was trying to describe.
Even it being so familiar to us as the Holy Ghost may be hard to understand in terms of like physically what he is. Perhaps he can be seen and like the celestial world. We don't know what he looks like whether he has like a gender, weather he is truly a soul like ours, or if he's a creation made specifically for the job, or perhaps a calling. So, these beasts, as creations of Heavenly Father, could really be just about anything. They could also be metaphorical representations of, perhaps trends, or actions and plans that God will take.

Then, all of a sudden, revelation starts to read super clearly when it gets to the part about the millennium.

And it's talks about overcoming. Like when Jesus Christ talked about overcoming the world. It seems like a large part of life can be understood as overcoming.

I really want to see that crazy building is being talked about in Revelations 21.