What's cool is that you can tie in the parable of the sower from Luke chapter 8, and you can tie it to Alma, chapter 32, I think. That's where it talks about Faith being like a little seed that you grow. It doesn't take much modification to make those fit really well together. And the case of the parable of the sower seed is just the word of God or the particle that you received, just the information. And, in Alma 32, the little seed is particle of faith. So, to pull them together, you just need to kind of consider that particle of faith to be what you apply to that little seed of the word of God you get in the parable of the sower. Like, your face and your efforts and your environment are what makes that little seed grow stronger. You need to exercise your faith to grow what's been given you, even just a little bit.

I feel like, that in luke, Jesus talks a lot about faith. It seems to be the attribute that he prioritizes and most praises in people. Of course, there is also that account of the person whose demons he expelled. They're demons can not be expelled by the apostles, and Christ said that only be taken care of with much prayer and fasting. I still feel like that applies to faith, because to do those efforts still requires faith. They're just an exercise of faith. 

Did Jesus expect them to leave that the young woman was actually just sleeping? If not, what rhetorical value instead is comment have? 
I had never noticed that Jesus specifically refutes the notion that, he that is not with us is against us. It's quite the opposite. According to Luke 9:49 he that is not against us is with us.

Jesus speaks about how all things are delivered unto him, from heavenly Father. I feel like that's, in general how it works. You go about doing righteous things and everything you need is just there.