---
title: 2024-06-25
author: ["Justin"]
lastmod: 2024-07-03T11:48:43-04:00
draft: false
---

## Agenda {#agenda}


### Tasks {#tasks}

-   [X] Anki Review - Chinese
-   [X] Exercise
-   [X] Watch a new movie
-   [I Saw the TV Glow]({{< relref "../../../main/movies.md#i-saw-the-tv-glow" >}})
-   [X] Write a new note
-   [ ] Read
    -   Did not get to read in any meaningful capacity (books, that is, finished
        some articles)


## Summary {#summary}

-   Trying this out, I ended up making a new capture template for my org-roam
    dailies, as you can see here. The differences between capture-today and the
    template is a bit odd.

<!--listend-->

```elisp
(setq org-roam-dailies-capture-templates
      '(("d" "daily" plain
         "* Agenda\n** Tasks\n- [ ] %?\n\n* Notes\n** Ideas\n- \n\n* Journal\n** Morning\n- \n\n** Evening\n- \n"
         :target (file+head "%<%Y/%m/%Y-%m-%d>.org"
                            "#+title: %<%Y-%m-%d>\n#+hugo_tags: noexport\n\n")
         :unnarrowed t
         :empty-lines 1
                )))
```

-   I have some lunch meetings so I'm not sure how much I'll get done today. I'd
    like to work on this site some more.


## Notes {#notes}


### Reading {#reading}

-   [I Will Fucking Piledrive You If You Mention AI Again — Ludicity](https://ludic.mataroa.blog/blog/i-will-fucking-piledrive-you-if-you-mention-ai-again/)
    -   I think this is directionally correct. I love LLMs and use them quite a bit
        (my god, it's so cheap, It cost me ~3 dollars to do something
        that'd take hours before) but for the forseeable future I don't think I'd
        trust most corporate initiatives to pull it off under budget or in a way
        that doesn't give bad optics.
        -   A (personal) example is I used an LLM to generate mnemonics for my Chinese decks
            (I'd say about 5% of them had to be redone, but I'm low agency enough to
            admit if I didn't use a script to create them I wouldn't have ~1000+ hanzi
            memorized by now)
        -   I've seen enough corporate initiatives go insane that should've
            been simple (example in the article, a simple CRUD app,
            etc. etc.) that I wouldn't trust 90% of the Fortune 500 to rollout
            something without SERIOUS cost overruns.


### Ideas {#ideas}

-   I found out the base quartz install doesn't really accomodate a lot of the
    org-mode features I'd like, maybe a chance to make a component.
    -   It's mostly design stuff, though
        -   org-mode task css + some properties
        -   also for some reason &lt;li&gt;'s strikethrough persist in lower bullets in
            tasks, I looked at the CSS but couldn't figure it out.
-   [ My Org Roam Notes Workflow - Hugo Cisneros](https://hugocisneros.com/blog/my-org-roam-notes-workflow/)
    -   Older blog article but they use a different process for building their
        global org-roam graph. Might be worth looking at if I wander into speed
        issues as mentioned in Aster Hu's [post](<https://www.asterhu.com/post/20240220-publish-org-roam-with-quartz-oxhugo/#limitations>)
