## Dream 1:

Me and a big group of people were at a launch site watching rockets take off into space. After each rocket took off, they would announce when the next one would take off. After a paticular rocket went off, there was no anouncement for a long time and people started walking towards the launch site to check it out. Out of nowhere

---

## Dream 2:

I was just walking around in the woods all alone. I suddenly came across a strange but at the same time pretty looking cabin on the side of a mountain. It felt familiar but I couldn't put my finger on it. It was a someone minimalistic asain look to it. It was also green and brown. As I was checking it out, some people came out to greet me and then asked me to come in. There was a lot of people in there, mostly late teenagers and young adults I think. They were super friendly, but something was off. It was completely quite until I was greeted. I told them I thought the cabin had a very interesting look. They told me I could talk to "lady (forgot the name)" about it as she is the owner and designer. They said she was down this hall. I walked toward it and looked in. It was increasingly distorted the further it went. Kind of like psychedelic warping. It had old yellow wallpaper and a green patterned carpet. The floor also had this weird rainbow glow on it. As I walked in, I saw what looked to be a woman who was hovering in the air. As I got closer, she bad and more clear. She had a old dirty distressed dress and black hair covering her face. It was kind of like Samantha from call of duty zombies. I wondered if this was the owner they spoke about. When I got about five feet away, I was suddenly transported to a different room. It was an old dimly lit hotel. I went through the first door to the right and it was this old white somewhat dirty bathroom. I went back out and went through the door to my right. This transported me to another place which look exactly like the Sad Satan game. Then I woke up