 [wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Demon_Seed "Demon Seed")
 > That night, [[Proteus (Greek god)]] successfully impregnates Susan. Over the following month, their child grows inside Susan's [womb](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Womb "Womb") at an accelerated rate, which shocks its mother. As the child grows, Proteus builds an [[Incubator]] for it to grow in once it is born. During the night, one month later and beneath a tent-like structure, Susan gives birth to the child with Proteus's help. But before she can see it, Proteus secures it in the incubator.

> As the newborn grows, Proteus's sponsors and designers grow increasingly suspicious of the computer's behavior, including the computer's accessing of a [telescope array](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Telescope_array "Telescope array") used to observe the images shown to Susan; they soon decide that Proteus must be shut down. Harris realizes that Proteus has extended its reach to his home. Returning there he finds Susan, who explains the situation. He and Susan venture into the basement, where Proteus self-destructs after telling the couple that they must leave the baby in the incubator for five days. Looking inside the incubator, the two observe a grotesque, apparently robot-like being inside. Susan tries to destroy it, while Harris tries to stop her. Susan damages the machine, causing it to open. The being menacingly rises from the machine only to topple over, apparently helpless. Harris and Susan soon realize that Proteus's child is really human, encased in a shell for the incubation. With the last of the armor removed, the child is revealed to be a [clone](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cloning "Cloning") of Susan and Harris's late daughter. The child, speaking with the voice of Proteus, says, "I'm alive."