# 2021-01-05 (Tue) 5MJ

I am grateful for:

1. Finally getting my travel pass. I know I still need to finalize everything by getting the travel authority, but I am obviously way ahead towards seeing Lea and starting a new life than I was two days ago.
2. The patience I had yesterday, which was not less a result of my emotional training for many years. It was my first time to go through that kind of process in a while. I feel like I needed to go through that process too. It is a stoic test.
3. Chatting with Tita Villa, Rainier, with Tita Nok and Karen a while ago. It is good to see that all is well with them right now. It was fun bonding with Tita Villa as we did before the pandemic wreck its havoc in the Philippines. I wish we return to normal.

To do:

- [x] Do a morning writing routine.
- [x] Do a weekly review.
- [x] Get travel authority.
- [ ] Start annual review.

"See this event simply as a recalibration, not a farewell or a total goodbye. You can always go back for a vacation."

Amazing

- Explored doing evergreen note-taking in Notion.
- Secured my travel authority/covid shield from PNP station at town.
- Spoke to Alfred Torio and established better camaraderie.
- Mama and Papa arrived. I got to talk to Mama about my plan. She is okay with it.
- Rode my bike to my favorite trail. My last ride to it (for now) is proof that it has in fact changed profoundly.
- Discovered Craft, which I am writing to right now. I think I may have found the app of my choice. It has everything I need so far and it is beautiful. My brain does not resist it.

