# 2021-01-10 (Sun) 5MJ

I am grateful for:

1. Claire and Rem. For the first time since I left the JWs, I can truly say that I have friends who truly, truly care about me. I do not know how I can reciprocate this friendship. Maybe I already am. But I am also afraid that I can't be a good friend to them when I am this close.
2. The fun group I participated with last night, especially the convo on play and theater. Gian is such an interesting personality.
3. The food! The buko pie, espasol, turon, cookies, mani, and Enzo's Ramen!

To do

- [x] Go to Morning Market with Rem, Claire, and Lea
- [ ] Publish a newsletter.

“I have a wonderful set of friends. I have friends who I know will love me unconditionally. I am grateful for them. I want to support them in their own journeys too.”

Amazing

- Lea brought a box full of gifts: a brief, an octopus stuff toy that changes colors, facial masks,  etc.
- Me, Lea, Rem, and Claire went on another date. This time, we went to the Sunday Market to try out goods.
- We tasted mushroom shawarma and Vietnamese coffee.
- We bought the following Korean food, which we ate at lunch: Chicken, Kimchi, Tofu, Noodles, Fish Cake. To complement everything, Calire also made malunggay and talinum soup with lots of ginger.
- We bought two beautiful bowls for household use.
- Claire brought us to a nature trail she visits. We ate our shawarmas there, looked at and touched the leaves of the trees, bonded with the dogs, and walked while it drizzled.
- After lunch, me, Lea, and Rem rode the jeep to Calamba. Rem and I continued our intense conversation inside the jeep.
- At Lea, we share the breads with Jacob. He loved the wildbread. We also watched an anime film, but I slept for the most part.
- I posted a photo of me and Lea on our first date after 300 days of being separated. Friends like it and welcomed me in my arrival to Elbi.

