---
title: "2021-01-17"
---
## I am grateful for:

1. Experiencing bahay-bahayan last night. It was a unique experience. But it was also something familiar. I used to do it already when I was younger.
2. Listening to Gian talk, contributing a few ideas, and being challenged entirely: What is it really that I stand for? What is it really that I want to do? How am I doing what I want to do? How am I contributing?
3. Deciding to go here in LB and really persevering, going past the emotional and logistical hurdles. It is worth it. LB has what I need to grow, even if not in the outside, but inside.

## To do:

- [x] Enjoy time with Lea, Claire, and Rem at Sunday Market then Spice Jar.
- [ ] Do a Weekly Review.
- [ ] Share highlights of December 2020 to Weekly Newsletter (also, say that you will have some weeks off as you reflect on what’s next for the newsletter).

## Affirmation

“I am a public intellectual.”

## Review

- Went to Sunday Market. Bought Sisig Wrap, Matcha Green Tea Cake, Korean twisted bread.
- Met Dr. Ed who sells aquaphonics materials.
- Visited Balitbitan place again. Saw the dogs and the trees.
- Saw a Lawin.
- Ate lunch at Spice Jar c/o Claire.
- Subscribed to Mushawaited meal plan.
- Spent some time with the Balitbitan kids upstair in our balcony.
- Had siesta.
- Watched Apocalypse Child with Lea while eating what’s left with our food plus my Matcha Green Tea Cake and her ginger bread.
- Helped Lea ride a Calamba jeep.
- Bought extra virgin olive oil, sesame oil, eggs, and swiss miss.

