# 2021-01-07 (Thu) 5MJ

I am grateful for:

1. The fun, enlightening, and almost safe ride yesterday from Pangasinan to Laguna. It was fun to get to know Alfred and see a glimpse of the life of a driver both in the context of Mangaldan's new administration and in the time of COVID. I now have a driver I can trust. Although I hope he lessens texting while driving so I can feel more comfortable.
2. Seeing Lea, finally after 300 days. I can’t believe I am here with her now, seeing here across this sala, just a few meters away. I am happy that she haven’t change that much physically (although she have changed a lot within). I can’t wait for what’s in store for us.
3. Being able to connect with Lea’s family. This is an opportunity for me to get embedded in my new world here. It feels less lonely to be in a foreign place when I have people I can be with.

To do:

- [x] Daily Writing Routine
- [x] Look for Tita Edna’s transient unit.
- [x] Start shopping for apartments at UPLB room mates.

“I am loved.”

Amazing

- I woke up in Lea's house for the first time in my life. It was kind for her mother and family to agree to let me stay.
- I had breakfast with Lea and Jacob. We ate Lea's buttered fried rice and Tita Luz's adobo.
- I tried working for a while (doing my morning routine) but had to rest my eyes and lie down for a while.
- I had lunch with Lea and her siblings. We had Tita Luz's sinampalocang manok. Yummy! I should try that back in Pangasinan.
- We started our way to LB. We rode tricycles twice because it was difficult to ride if not from SM terminal.
- We got off Lopez at Bonito's restaurant and followed Claire's instructions to find Tita Edna's compound.
- We met Tita Edna who toured us around available rooms for rent. I decided to take the room upstairs with a wide window but taking it for just a few transient days before I make a decision. But honestly, I m starting to feel at home here already.
- I finally got to cuddle Lea on bed after 301 days!
- We had dinner at a Japanes restaurant. We ate Maki and Tempura salad. Lea treated me as part of our agreement.

