---
title: "2021-12-03"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. Having Lea around.
2. Another recentering walk at UP last night.
3. The Advocate meds arriving. Hopefully it is effective.

## Affirmation

“I contemplate.”

## Review

- Tried new morning routine.
- Had lunch at Food Biker's.
- Continued Talahardin development.
- Walked: Ela-Oñate-Aglibut-Pili-Roxas-Viado-Juliano-Freedom Park-Royal Palm
- Watched Hustlers.

WHAT I SAW.

I started walking about the same time the other day. The rout:e Mt. Data—Ruby—Bulusan—Diamond—Santos—Lopez—Ela—Onate—Aglibut—Pili—Roxas—Viado—Juliano—Freedom Park—Royal Palm—Lopez—Halcon—Ruby—Mt. Data. I tried looking for empty spaces again. Saw the waiting shed near the church at Ela. The street light created an unusual effect on my camera while at Onate. Then there's the newly built waiting shed—concrete in its glory—near Pili Drive. But the most interesting thing I saw was the effect of background lights to a slender tree in Pili when I was near Roxas. The lights were not as bright, just enough to create a shadow of the tree. The indigo sky added mystery to the scene. It was my first cold December night walk. I passed by Roxas and remembered Blanca again. Took another interesting shot of the Carillion on the background and the statues below it. The lights are really doing their job. It is as if they were installed just so we can take great photos. Another image that benefited from all the lights was this old tree along Roxas. The light illuminated its branches which are covered by green fur. The contrast between black and green is amazing. I peed for a while at the baseball field. And when I looked back, I saw that the path was alluring— the dark leaves and the bright light on the road created a mystical "portal" look that caught my eyes. I walked some more then took a two minute video for the oblation as it changed colors. It was a relieving cold walk. The cold breeze benefitted me immensely.

WHAT I THOUGHT ABOUT

While walking about when I took the turn from Roxas to Viado, I stopped to write these words:

To build a philosophy of living is an iterative process. You can't afford to wait for everything to be settled before you start living. You have to choose what's best among your current options. Or just start or try different options. Then you eliminate what does not resonate. I know I have written about this before. But I am reminded of it because of something that Frederick Ross said in his interview at The Guardian. Writing a book about walking is some sort of obstacle to just living. Well, I don't totally agree with that. I still think that the best way to live is to combine the two simultaneousl—to think about life and live at the same time, to inform one with the other. But Gross was right to suggest that living should take priority over everything else. If studying prevents me from living, then it hasn't done its job. I think so I can add better and be present better and feel better.

Aside from this, I continued studying Talahardin development. I continued to dilineate notes about Zettelkasten, Evergreen notes, and Talahardin. I realized I could adopt literature notes about the former two to recreate them as an integral part of Talahardin.

## [[2021-12-03 seeds]]

