# 2021.12.23

I am grateful for:

1. The internet returning this morning, which means I could continue studying website design later.
2. A good sleep. I hope this helps me think better for the rest of the morning.
3. The calm. The feeling of contentment and hope. This is better than in the past days when I felt like I was being led astray by my desires.

"I will build this website that represents who I really am."

# Review

## Studies

I journaled about the convergence element of my website, which is the current state of my philosophy. What I stand for. I mentioned the main question I am asking, the problems about the current methods of answering the question, and the rules I adhere to in answering the question and thinking in general.

I finalized my annual review routine and rewrote my repeating tasks in Things.

## Projects

I continued to make progress in my study of web design. I studied the following:

- Web design theory
   - I learned that standards in design are influenced by the current social context and the available technology of a given time. I also learned that changes within the field of design is usually a reaction to current trends in the field (art noveau, postwar design standards, Carson).
   - I learned that in the beginning, web design was just about experimenting with the computer and the internet. This changed eventually when designers applied what they learned in design classes into designing websites.
- Typography
   - I learned that if one is just starting out, one must not reinvent the wheel. Use the six classics that Massimo used in his typography.
   - I learned about line height and when it is appropriate to change it. Line height shouldn’t be so wide that one notices it instead of the text. Basically the main point of typography is that the text is the most important thing, and nothing must interfere with its goal of communicating.
   - typography communicates both thought and values.
   - Serif was caused by old tools that left extra marks at the edge of characters. Sans serif was possible because we had more precise tools.
   - Serif communicates age and institution, while sans-serif communicates modernity. There are other categories like script (or handwriting).
- Images
   - I learned that there are different kinds of images used in graphic and web design: photo, illustrations, and 3d. Photos commmunicate reality. Illustrations are able to communicate more complex ideas in one image. 3d combines the realism of photography with the complexity of illustrations.
   - I realized that I will use my own photos most of the time. Or in the beginning, I will use very few photos.
   - It is good to expand one’s skill set to complement one’s primary skill (e.g., learning photography even if one is a designer allows one to produce one’s own images to use in design projects).
- Layout
   - I learned about grids. It is a system of design that has its own book. 12 grids is popular to use because it can be divided into different numbers.
   - Gutter is the space between grids. It is useful to separate texts.
   - Container is the space where the grids could be manipulated. Grids can’t expand beyond the container. This is useful for legibility especially now that we have very wide displays. Containing the grids in the middle of a page prevents readers from tilting their heads across the display, which makes for easier reading.
- Color Theory
   - I learned that this is a good method to work with colors when building a website:
      1. Understand the psychology behind colors and choose colors accordingly.
      2. Choose a primary color, a secondary color, and an accent collor.
      3. Use a palette generator to find colors related to one color.
      4. Decide how to use the colors you chose.
- Hierarchy
   - I learned that hierarchy is probably the most important concept in design. Hierachy helps visitors navigate each element of the website. It allows the designer to teach the visitor how to behave while in the website.
   - Hierarchy can be accomplished in three ways:
      - Changing the size of elements
      - Changing the colors of elements
      - Changing the position of elements
   - Hierarchy is applied in price tables in websites. They apply all three ways of achieving hierarchy when highlighting the specific price point they want you to take.
- Wireframe
   - I learned that it’s always good to do wireframe by hand first and that it is okay not to create a digital wireframe if its just a personal project. A more high fidelity wireframe could be used if one is working with clients.
   - The purpose of doing wireframes is focusing on layout and text alone.
   - Use the exact copy instead of lorem ipsum.
- Hero Section
   - In this lesson, Ran simply demonstrated how to apply the different concepts he presented to create a hero section in a website.
- The Website Structure
   - This is the part where one thinks about the content of the site.
   - One needs to have a rough idea of what one stands for.
   - Then one can use card sorting: brainstorm all kinds of content.
   - Next, arrange those kinds of content into bigger categories.
   - I was introduced to the concept of “information architecture” which is a very beautiful term. It simply means that how we present information affects the emotions of visitors. Altering the arrangement alters emotions. Cool.

## Others

I walked to Divi Mart first, realized there are too many people so decided to walk at UP. I took a short but mindful and mildly recentering walk along Ela-Aglibut-Pili-Rambutan-Ela.

