# 2021-01-16 (Sat) 5MJ

I am grateful for:

1. Last night's conversation with Lea about how she could accomplish "our" goal of her saving for her emergency fund. I did not expect that she would take this seriously. Or maybe I did expect, knowing her, she responds to "alarm" calls. But I am grateful really that she is this way.
2. An uplifting walk at UP yesterday. Although I wish I could walk at UP without a mask and a face shield again, I still feel good walking. I should walk earlier though so I can see more beauty.
3. The invitation I received from Gian and Kate through Claire. Being invited into the birthday party of a child of new friends is something that doesn’t always happen. While I am still warry about the probable wuwu vibes later, I am going because I am interested in bahay-bahayan and seeing what it feels like to live in UP housing as a faculty.

To do

- [x] Continue and try to finish writing PNV.
- [x] Join Claire to bahay-bahayn at Kate and Gian’s.

“I have made the first step towards the life that I want. I am on my way.”

Amazing

- Continued writing my PNV.
- Watched The Crown S4E7.
- Installed the new Evernote to Mac.
- Got to visit Kate and Gian's house in UPLB. The view on their balcony is amazing!
- Finally met Julius Galang!
- Got to experience bahay-bahayan. I portrayed the role of a military man torturing martial law victims.
- Went through another tedious LPH experience.
- Shared good food and rich conversations with the gang.
- Went home with lots of creative juices so sat down and wrote about my life work and intention to clarify it further.
- Called Lea and talked to her about my day with bahay-bahayan and my creative inspirations.

