# 2021.12.24

I am grateful for:

1. Being able to control the flea problem to the point where I am not bitten in the night.
2. The things I am realizing while learning website design.
3. Being relatively okay healthwise.

"I will be able to articulate what I stand for eventually."

# Review

## Studies

## Projects

### Linux

While en route to Calamba, I read Bertel King’s enlightening article ([https://www.makeuseof.com/tag/5-reasons-software-free-open-source/](https://www.makeuseof.com/tag/5-reasons-software-free-open-source/)). I learned that free and open source software can be more long-lasting because even if they are abandoned, people who know code can continue using them. On the other hand, mobile apps can be easily removed from app stores and cloud applications can stop working when servers are gone.

This reading got me really interested about linux. It is definitely an OS that I want to try. I went back to some easy to repair laptops and shopped online. This prompted me to start a New Laptop project. I started reading more about really repairable laptops. Some people liked the Lenovo Thinkpad but some said its repairability is a myth. Some also commented that while Dell can be repairable, it is difficult to find parts. So far, I am convinced that if ever I buy a new laptop, HP will be a good choice.

In that note, I have decided that I will continue using Mac Os x while exploring Linux. If I decide after trying out Linux that it is not for me, then I will stick to Mac. Therefore, I need to be able to run at least all three OSes in my computer. The solution to that is virtualization. I discovered that I could run Monterey on my unsupported laptop using Opencore. But a better way to do it is to use a virtual machine. These will be experiments I will do after my sustenance work marathon in the next five days. Either way, I need a new laptop—a backup. I read the pros and cons of buying second-hand.

I saw the raspberry pi foundation and saw that there is a branch in the Philippines. I don’t know what they stand for but they’re interesting.

### Web Design

I started browsing the web for wiki sites. I also browsed personal websites for inspiration.

## Others

Christmas eve with Lea’s family.

Played anomia with the gang and they really loved it.

