---
title: "2021-02-06"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. This window. My portal to the natural world. My portal to my muse. The reason I am still here even if I know things can be more ideal for me.
2. The insights that came to me yesterday in terms of how difficult it is indeed to fulfill my mission and purpose.
3. Lea, Claire, and Rem. My family here that I can run to if I feel lonely like I did yesterday.

To do

- [x] Morning writing routine: To be clear about what I want to achieve in my life work.

## Affirmation

“I know what I want to do. I just have to articulate it clearly. I just have to speak my truth.”

## Review

- Translated: [[Kaliskis na Ulap — Mga Salin#02-06-1841 Ito ang lupa kung saan siya sumibol]].
- Continued thinking about my life work.
- Went to Likhaya to get my order. Met Rhea and talked to her. I forgot to check that my order was 12 pcs.
- Bought sardines and tuyo gourmet.
- Ome went back to deliver 4 pandesal pcs.
- Watched Panti Sisters with Lea.
- Walked around Daang Kalabaw to look for apartments.
- Talked to Ate Merly and Joey.
- Cooked spinach on noodles and hard boiled egg.
- Realization: Experiencing and understanding Ginhawa as a way of living is the core of my work. Inner work is the main work. If it doesn't feel right, it isn't right. What I want is to study, apply what I studied, talk about what I have learned from my study and practice. I'm doing this not as a researcher but as an ordinary human being who is just interested.

## [[2021-02-06 seeds]]
