# 2021.12.30

I am grateful for:

1. Being able to work for four days straight. Now I have an extra day (27 days total) of freedom I can use to better myself and to pursue my life work.
2. Feeling calm and okay despite the Scribendi complaint.
3. An entire year of sustenance work culminating. I have been with Scribendi for 2 years already (which reminds me, I am 2 years living with tinnitus too!)

"Everything is alright."

# Review

## Studies

I journaled about budgeting.

I continued reading A Philosophy of Walking (Chapter 10: Eternities). I processed my highlights and wrote a note or two about it. The chapter basically said that walking helps us be in touch with eternities in contrast with the novelty we get from news (and in today’s world, social media). When we walk especially in Nature, we are exposed to slow-changing objects, which were there before we were born and will be there after we’re dead, which further reinforces this lesson.

It was my first time to use the newly updated Weekly Review routine, which includes a Weekly Report. I navigated how to write the report and realized that I could simply choose the best highlights, 1-2 a day, and feature those. Through the Weekly Review, I was able to reassess my active projects and other projects I am looking forward to do in the coming year.

## Projects

### Bugeting

I activated a new project: Budgeting. I realized that I wanted to make the most of the upcoming earnings I will receive next month. While I will continued to log my expenses and follow YMOYL principles, I need a simple structure to help me know where to channel my money at the beginning of the year. I reviewed Fitz’s strategy and was surprised to see how simple and attractive it was now (unlike months ago when I first encountered it). I have decided to give Fitz Villafuerte’s strategy a try for at least next month, then reeavaluate if it indeed helped me. So my strategy will be this way:

1. Work to earn P50,000 per month.
2. Upon receiving income, immediately invest P15,000 to the stock market.
3. Allot P20,000 for fixed monthly expenses.
4. Budget P15,000 for other needs and wants.

I was really surprised how quick I came to this formula. To identify the fixed monthly expenses though, I had to review the past three months to see my average expenses on each. In this process, I saw that my biggest expenses came from my house rent, food, and pets. This made me realize that I should find ways to cut expenses in this areas like considering transfering houses, fixing my diet, etc. This led me to questioning whether I should cut what I send to Mama, which I talked with Lea too during our conversation.

### Laptop

I saw some potential stores in Carousel.

## Others

Continued watching HIMYM.

Vaccuumed the house and sprayed anti-flea spray to the cats.

Walked at UP: Ela-Pili-Argañosa-Madamba-Viado-Pancho-Juliano- Freedom Park-Royal Palm.

I talked to Lea about my resistance to send more money to Mama.

