# 2021-01-30 (Sat) 5MJ

I am grateful for:

1. A wonderful visit and bonding with Maui, Yano, Bevs, Kuya Bogs, Tuldok, and Dos.
2. Sitting at the back of their house, seeing the garden, experiencing the wind, witnessing the moon.
3. Maui’s question: “May ginagawa ka naman ah. Hindi pa ba enough yun?”

To do

- [x] Morning writing routine
- [x] Read Week 1 of Volumetrics
- [x] Attend Bahay-bahayan

“I am able to express my true self without resistance.”

Amazing

- Morning writing routine
- Read Week 1 of Volumetrics
- Wrote [[My life plan]]
- Watched Naruto
- Joined LPH as observant-participant
- Shared my ikigai rough draft to everyone and told them about the self-directed learning center for the first time
- Joined Gian and Claire bring Rem back home.
- Helped Claire get in their boarding house.
- Realized: I am enjoying these social gatherings. I am realizing how much I’ve missed all those years because I am not exposed to people. And I need to make the most out of this opportunity. But I also need to keep them in check so that I have enough energy for “other” social gatherings, especially when I will be connecting with people who are more aligned with what I want to do. I need to be mindful of how I spend my time. I need to feel aligned in this area of my life. What can I do? Drop LPH, order only one item from Ome, drop Sunday dates (or do it at least alternately, tell them you will use Sunday for Lea’s siblings), have Fruit Salad limited to fortnightly (tell them that you will need more time to develop a project, you need to maintain a certain momentum). Keep bahay-bahayan. But, don’t over commit. Finalize schedule with Lea.

Mon - FREE w/ Lea

Tue - FREE w/ Lea

Wed - FREE ALONE; Fruit Salad (fortnightly)

Thu - FREE ALONE

Fri - FREE ALONE

Sat - FREE ALONE; Bahay-bahayan (6pm onwards)

Sun - FREE w/ Lea; Lunch/bonding with Rem, Claire, or other friends (fortnightly)

