# 2021.12.22

I am grateful for:

1. An amazing conversation with Lea. I was able to listen to her five-year vision and she was able to listen to me narrate my current thought processes.
2. These index cards. They do unlock insights because they destroy one's perspective.
3. Framework, HP, and Dell for creating repairable laptops.

"It is okay that I don't yet know what I stand for."

# Review

## Studies

- I journaled about how I want to make more mental space for daily reviews and modify my weekly, monthly, and annual review. I also wrote some things I wanted to include in my website. Finally, I added a list of 12 creative learning projects I could pursue in 2022.
- True to what I wrote in my journal, I immediately went into work updating my monthly review. I simplified the process by removing unnecessary sections and questions. I also included area evaluation in my monthly report, instead of treating it as its own category.
- I changed the name of my highlights of the month to “monthly report” and highliths of the year to “annual report”.
- I made a dilineation between reports and their public versions, i.e., publishable artifacts to send on my newsletter.

# Projects

### Design vinceimbat.com

- I started conducting a meta-learning session to look for a resource to learn web design. I was looking for a course that included a design part (i.e., thinking about branding and creating a design out of that brand). I wasn't very particular with development. I could do that later.
- I learned from the process that a basic understanding of html and css before learning design might help, but not necessary.
- I was torn between taking the Treehouse course and a domestika course. After walking, I went back and look at the courses again but realized that the Treehouse course was too limited in what it had to offer. The Domestika course was quite appealing. It had the right length and the structure is just what I need. However, I wanted to challenge myself if I could learn all of these for free instead of paying. So I googled for a free course in YouTube. I discovered the Flux course, which was interesting because it was bein run by a seasoned designer who speaks English (the Domestika course was in Spanish). I decided to give it a go as it seems to have the content I need although it was almost twice the length of the Domestika course.
- I learned that web design is a combination of graphic design and web development.
- I learned that one needs at least three basic software when doing website design: image editor, vector editor, and screen editor.
- I learned the difference between image editing and vector editing.
- I also learned about the concepts that repeat themselves throughout these three basic softwares: layers and styles.

## Others

- I walked to UP: Ela-Oñate-Aglibut-Royal Palm-Juliano-Pancho-Viado-Roxas-Pili-Aglibut-Dawis-Ela
- I continued watching HIMYM
- Talked to Lea in the evening

