---
title: "2022-11-19"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. Finding closure with Scribendi. At least I am now sure that it is a close chapter.
2. Receiving an email from Cinque. At least there is possibility for some new work soon.
3. Being alive and having this opportunity to go to a retreat at Tanay.

## Affirmation

"What is done is done. We move on to the next chapter."

## Review

Lea and I woke up by 6 am and prepared for 30 minutes. We walked to Agapita and left LB around 7 am. We reached Calamba around 7:45. We missed the Cubao bus of HM so we decided to check LLI. We found the bus we were actually looking for, the Jac bus. We rode it and tried to sleep along the way.

We came off around the area of Burger King to look for somewhere to eat brunch. Lea wanted to eat at KFC so we went there. We ate our brunch and had some discussions. I also started writing my workview and lifeview there.

Afterwhich, we walked to Burger King. At BK, I wrote a scholarship application to the Global Joy Summit. There, we met Cris, which I talked to lengthily about Rem. Then we met Janice and Lou Ann. Donna assisted us. After leaving BK, we met Len and Tyron around Marikina area.

The trip was mostly me talking with Cris about Rem, and taking some much needed sleep. It was raining hard along the way.

We reached Hogar around 3 pm. Inside the meshroom, we met Ate Gigi and her dogs. We had merienda and I continued talking with Cris. I saw Bryan and thought he will join the retreat.

After eating merienda, we were given instructions on how to access our cottages. I went up to check on it. It was a beautiful cottage far away up from all the others. I set up my things and took a shower. Then I went back down to the mess room.

The Rem Gang arrived. I assisted Ton in his way up his cottage.

Ms. Lea, Mini, and Len introduced us to the retreat. Then they led us outdoors to show us the Ginhawa land and the prayer garden. I led the other participants up to my cottage and showed them Ton's cottage too.

After this, we went back to the meshroom for dinner. At dinner, I learned that Bryan was leaving. Before he left, Ms. Lea pulled us together and told us she intends to introduce us to Ronald Tepora for mentorship on philosophical disussions. We agreed and I personally find this exciting.

After Bryan left, I sat down with the group we had at the van and let Lou Ann and Tyron and talk about the problems of the education system. Tyron wanted more academic freedom, almost reaffirming self-directed education. We all agreed that we are asked too early to commit to a career path that isn't for us. Tyron's solution was that instead of asking children to commit to strands, they should be allowed to take more general education courses and be allowed to take free electives so they can truly explore their interests. He told about his story of leaving one field to another. He was interested in philosophy and actually took it as a masters but left after realizing the bulk of the course would be Western philosophy (he was partial to Eastern). He realized that cultural studies was what he wanted because philosophy is embedded in there anyways. So he studied Philippine Studies. That is where he may have met Mini, using baybayin in his teachings.

Lou Ann had a funny educational and professional trajectory which was directed mostly by hunches and emotions rather than careful decision-making. But this process led her to what she truly wants.

After dinner, we all congregated in the Guesthouse to introduce ourselves. Ms. Lea also introduced herself and the Ginhawa family. After this, we were surprised by Jimbie's astronaut costume. Then, the storytelling surprise happened. It was fun. We also got to create handmade stars after.

After cleaning up, we went outside to test if we can have star gazing. But it started to rain. We attempted to stay at the gazeebo, but there was no electricity.

We were gifted with an opening and so we were still able to watch the stars for about 2 hours or so. We had some nuts and choknat while watching the stars and relying on apps to know their names.

By 11 pm, I bade goodbye to retire. I walked back to my cottage. There, I took a bath then wrote something on my journal, something about my desire to work in a pastoral role. I started reading the Pastoral Skills book which Ms. Lea gifted me. I was sleepy by 12 and so I slept.
