# 2022.01.20

I am grateful for:

1. A better sleep last night.
2. Remembering that my life work is the practice of the mind and it has to take precedence over any project.
3. Lea coming over later and she promised to cook dinner!

"I am going to take good care of my mind today."

# Review

## Studies

I continued reading APOW Chapter 16 “States of Well-being”.

I wrote a fleeting note about how nature teaches amoralism and tolerance.

I learned more about cynicism by watching this TedEd video: [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Utzym1I_BiY](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Utzym1I_BiY)

## Projects

### Annual review

I published my 2021 annual review on the blog and shared it on social media to cap off this project.

### Temporary vinceimbat.com

I optimized the site by installing the Cloudflare CDN basic, minifying html, css, etc., optimizing the database, and using cache.

### Learn web development

I read the course ebook. Here are the things I remember:

- Break someone's code. Breaking code like deleting line by line will teach you what a particular code does.
- Copy someone’s code. Copy codes and see if you can make modifications without breaking the code.
- Have a purpose for coding. Do not code for the sake of coding. You have to have a project you want to create. That will help you persevere.
- Allot time for learning to code then make it a habit.
- Find a mentor. It is important to get feedback on your code.

I also watched the first real video lesson about how the internet works. This is what it says:

The internet is not a cloud. It is literally a set of wires. Many of these wires traverse entire oceans under submarine cables. In these wires are connected two kinds of computers. The first kind are called servers. They hold data that they provide upon request. The second kind are clients. These are the computers we use to connect to the internet. The processing of information happens this way:

1. Client sends a request by typing google.com on the browser.
2. The Internet Service Provider (ISP) receives that request.
3. The ISP sends that request to a Domain Name Server (DNS), which is basically a phone book of contacts. It returns the IP address for a requested page.
4. The ISP sends the IP address to the client.
5. The client then sends that IP address to the Internet Backbone.
6. The request goes directly to the IP address, which is the address of the requested page’s server (Google).

This process happens in milliseconds.

## Others

Tried looking for ways to contact BPI using phone for free.

I walked with Ju at Pili Drive.

I watched White Tiger with Lea—and so-so movie.

