---
title: "2022-11-25"
---
## I am grateful for:

1. Having Lea with me. I am in less need for other people and their approval. I can be by myself longer without feeling alone.
2. All the things I did when I was a child that made it a worthwhile time in my life. I was often in flow, which made me mentally healthy despite my OCD.
3. Mama and Bernice for helping me to get a clearer photo for my TOR.

## Affirmation

"I will be alright. I will find a dayjob to support myself."

## Review

I journaled about going down memory lane to the things I did where I flowed. I asked myself why is there resistance in my part to commit to creating stories even if I flowed in them when I was young doing them. I wrote about Dave Ursillo. I wrote how DYL is helping me get out of the immediate problem and imagine what else is possible.

I did a mindmap for each of the three activities that came up from the past days of good time journaling.
1. Something that engages me (creating stories)
2. Something that energizes me (walking)
3. Something that makes me flow (photography)

I set a timer for 6 minutes and mindmapped each. After this, I went to each mindmap, looked at the outer rings and encircled three words that jumped to me. I then created a job description with a drawing incorporating those three words. I did this for each mind map. The results were:
1. Creating stories -> sign language tour, self-directed learning, poetry -> a self-directed learning poetry tour with Deaf participants
2. Walking -> Tanay Rizal, ancient aliens, mindfulness -> a history/cosmological + well-being retreat at a nature-filled environment like Tanay
3. Photography -> journaling, indigenous peoples, nomina -> a book project about indigenous creative spirituality as described in old journals

Lea and I watched Ancient Apocalypse while having lunch.

I continued reading DYL while having merienda.

I walked at Batis. At the end of the trail, I stopped and sat down to sketch my first Odyssey plan: writer of many genres

Lea and I watched The Crown while having dinner.

After dinner, I called Tito Bobby. He said he was in the Philippines and was planning to surprise the family in Pangasinan.