---
title: "2022-12-18"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. The reminder to calm down. The reminder that now is the time to take things easy and be easy on myself.
2. Luminaries in the freelancing world - people who are doing things differently and that we can emulate.
3. Learning that Upwork is something I should avoid for now esp if I already have work waiting for me.

## Affirmation

"I will make freelancing work for me again, the right way."

## Review

Lea and I traveled to Las Piñas to attend the South Tribe Year-End Gathering. While in transit, I read [The Creative Switch by Ralph Ammer](https://ralphammer.substack.com/p/the-creative-switch).

We got off at Robinson's Las Piñas and had lunch at Arroz Ecija. We had bagnet kare-kare and bagnet pakbet. We also had puto dessert. We then walked on the street for 10 minutes until we reached the tricycle station to ride the trike that brought us to the Black Scoop Cafe.

At the Black Scoop Cafe we were welcomed by Cece, then we sat down with Rene and Kayeh (along with Francis, Faye, and Heart). We talked and made friends with them. Then Jen arrived followed by Liz and JA. We caught up and made new friends. I learned that Jen is a US Taxation bookkeeper and that there is a thriving commmunity of freelancers offering this skill.

To begin our meetup, we introduced ourselves. I was happy to speak my truth, share my freelancing journey, and feel validated and supported with every word that came out of my mouth. After this, we ate a heavy meal of spaghetting, chicken nuggets (?), sandwhich, fries, cupcake, and a milk tea drink. Then, we played some games and won some raffles.

After the end of the event, Lea, Liz, JA, and I decided to go somewhere quieter and talk in a more intimate manner. I got to talk with JA more privately and got to know him more. I was flattered that he felt emotionally touched by my writing (he even got teary-eyed). This was great feedback.

We all left the cafe happy and fulfilled. The travel back to LB was relatively smooth and it helped that we got from an event that was inspiring so the tiredness was really nothing. While in transit, I read James Clear's latest newsletter and [Tammy Strobel's last newsletter for 2022](https://tammystrobel.substack.com/p/all-the-gratitude).

Before sleeping, I won and lost an ML game. Thankfully, I got star protection.

## [[2022-12-18 seeds]]
