---
title: "2022-11-17"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. A good evening sleep. I feel more awake and I have recuperated the lost sleep yesterday.
2. Lea's support and reassurance.
3. The opportunity today to continue learning about myself and what I want.

## Affirmation

"You are free."

## Review

I journaled about the characteristics of an ideal day job. I also wrote that an option is to continue doing editing but doing it right this time.

I processed my emails at my other email account.

I cooked chicken curry because Lea had some allergic reactions quite possibly from the curry. We had lunch late.

I discovered a Filipino career and life coach named Aurora Suarez.

I started working closely on my translation to Mini's foreword.

I had merienda while reading the foreword to Designing Your Life.

Lea and I walked until Viado. Then we separated so I can continue walking. The walk was really captivating and grounding. It helped me feel that I really need to go back to my well first.

At Freedom Park, I sat on a bench then looked at the park. I started reading about [Christian anarchism](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Christian_anarchism) and the [LAN](https://onsiteinfoshopphilippines.wordpress.com/local-autonomous-network-in-action/). I also discoverd Peace Church Philippines.

I bought pears and banana chips for dinner. I had dinner while watching an episode of the Derry Girls.

After Dinner, I intended to finish my translation for Mini. I did so and sent it.

I played ML before sleeping, winning one and losing one.

## [[2022-11-17 seeds]]
