---
title: "2022-10-10"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. Being able to publish the first issue of The Long Walk yesterday and feeling okay about it.
2. Seeing the moon while sitting in front of moving water lilies at Laguna de Bay.
3. This monday. A beginning of a new walk.

## Affirmation

"My days are varied and full of meaning"

## Review
### Philosophy etc.

I continued reading The Inward Morning and wrote [[The Inward Morning Commentary 1952-09-27]]. Reading the entry made me realize that lyrical philosophers love to read a variety of materials and write about what they read. While I recognize that Thoreau may frown upon this, I see that a life of writing revelation outdoors can still coexist beautifully with a life full of reading and writing about what one reads. In this entry, Bugbee argues that philosophical truth arrives in the preset moment, when we really are present, from the past via reflection. But it arrives unexpectedly and therefore one must have faith that it will arrive no matter what.

I continued reading [[thoughts/living philosophy by edward mooney]], especifically chapters 4 and 5. Chapter 4 was about the book The Existentialist's Survival Guide by Marino, while chapter 5 was about Bugbee's life and writings.

I updated the note [[My answer to how should I live]].

### Writing

I formatted [[essays/a philosophical family tree]] to follow what is in Substack then published it.

### Photography

### Walking

### Projects

**Reading inbox**
- Continued filling up my Zotero with metadata of the books I already read.

### Others
- Watched The Redeem Team.
- Conducted a weekly review.
- Continued watching Mo.
