# 2022-07-08

## I am grateful for:
1. Seeing Dagupan and walking it again and tasting Golden Mami House once more!
2. 2019 and 2020, the years of the poems. I am grateful for the pastoral poems.
3. One week of staying here.

## Affirmation

"I am a poet."

## Review
### Philosophy etc.

### Writing

I finalized my choice of poems to send to Rem and Rein for feedback. I translated the poems to Rem except "Gawat," which I thought would best be consumed as is.

My translations are as follows:
- [[translations/ahas na bingi]]
- [[translations/patawarin mo ang mga magsasaka]]
- [[translations/kung ang mga sasakyang ito ay naglalakad na mga tao]]
- [[translations/guya]]
- [[translations/amayo (sa filipino)]]

I sent a google docs to Rem and another to Rein. They both agreed to help. Rem has already sent his feedback: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ub0Ocf-ylFU

### Photography

I wrote about what I currently need from photography and how I can learn the most important skills that will make the biggest difference in my current life. This is based on Kaufman's First 20 Hours. I realized that what I need was the following:

1. To identify and buy a professional camera that I can grow with in the years to come.
2. To find my photographic voice and establish a vision (i.e., philosophical photography that complements what I want to do in my writing and life work).
3. To master how to channel that photographic voice and vision into effective and beautiful compositions.
4. To acquire a mastery of editing that is appropriate to my voice and vision.
5. To establish a workflow for developing my edited photos and sharing them on Instagram.
6. To establish a photo management system that supports my creative work.

I went back to my literature notes on The First 20 Hours and transported them to Obsidian and Zotero. I also continued reading the book.

I watched a YouTube video by Sean Dalton comparing Lightroom with Lightroom Classic (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BTvVs_CkkE4). This video convinced me that Lightroom Classic would be my base and mobile with web will be an extension.

### Walking

I received a very lovely email from Len about how the recent Uman triggered her memories about (1) a 5.7 km walk she took as a child from school to her home because she had no fare and (2) a lovely poem she wrote when she was homesick at Dubai.

### Projects

### Others

- I continued watching Trying.
- Mama cooked balatong and sinanglaw na sapsap with ampalaya leaves.

## Field notes