---
title: "2022-09-11"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. Lea for standing up for herself yesterday. It was a great step forward.
2. The challenge to think about what I really want to do with my life moving forward.
3. My throat feeling better today.

## Affirmation

"I know what to do. I just have to uncover it."

## Review
### Philosophy etc.

### Writing

### Photography

### Walking

- Walked with Lea to JuWa's house to feed the cats and spend time with them. Then we went to Savemore to buy a few things.
- By 6 pm, I went back to walk some more at UP (Royal Palm, Freedom Park, then Ela).

### Projects

[[ynab]]
- I journaled about my current part-time FI strategy and the problems inherent in it. I articulated that I need to have at least 40% savings rate, which, if I keep expenses to 40k max, will require to produce at least 65k per month. I wrote some options on how to achieve my goal.
- I paid my remaining balance to the Couple Fund. I also set up Komo as our Couple Fund bank account.
- I finally started really diving into YNAB. I finished the onboarding process, which finally showed where to create new budgets. I created a new budget for myself. I then linked a cash account and a bank account to the Couple Fund budget and logged all transactions there. I did the same in my personal Vince's Fund. Doing all of these made me really appreciate the YNAB software. I also like that it is so easy to log a transaction through it much like in Dollarbird. It also showed me the importance of tracking every single movement of money.

Insurance
- I activated my Sun Life Client Portal.

### Others
- Continued watching Community.