# 2022.02.07

I am grateful for:

1. This calm quiet place and moment in Lea's house.
2. The challenge of how to live my life, how to build my life work, and uncovering my purpose.
3. Being in a position where I am allowed to even think about these things.

"I am going to uncover my purpose."

# Review

## Studies

I journaled about my purpose statement, vision statement, and mission statement. I cleary articulated the three, especially my mission statement. I also went back to my Sky Level note and started updating it. I accidentally activated my sky level project. But this is necessary so I can define my direction clearly. I trimmed the note My purpose is to live a life filled with Ginhawa, which is my purpose statement. I changed Studying with Understanding as one of my five categories of action.

I also continued watching CM’s stream about how he started his membership program. I learned that memberships give you the permission to create the work you want to do. My biggest takeaway however was CM’s main purpose in the work he does, which is basically his life too. He has connected the systems he has created to support book production. He has a main medium (books), which he supports with other media (newsletter, articles, photography, videography, web design and development). The books contain narratives of his walks and what he sees there. So basically he has:

1. A main medium
2. Supportive media
3. Content

## Projects

### Learn web development

I learned about 11ty from CM.

## Others

I logged my Scribendi earnings and the fees incurred recently.

I finished watching Smaller and Smaller Circles

