---
title: "2022-10-13"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. This beautiful seat where I am now situated. It brings an entirely different perspective, one that can't be made through my monotonous afternoon walks. Something has to change if I want to be more open to being gifted. These lights, these wind, all of them is what I am looking for.
2. This wind blowing to me as I write.
3. Being alive to witness all of these happen.

## Affirmation

"It is a wonderful gift just to be alive!"

## Review
### Philosophy etc.

While under the fertility tree, I journaled about how this morning walk to UP may have just changed how I see LB. I also journaled about my proposed photo project with Benjie.

I continued reading The Inward Morning and wrote [[The Inward Morning Commentary 1952-10-02]]. In this entry, Bugbee talks about Socrates and how the power of his thought lies not in his induction but in his admonition for us to return to ourselves as the focus of our inquiry. Bugbee also provides Socrates idea of the examined life and its value.

I started processing my notes in [[thoughts/living philosophy by edward mooney]]. I was done with the preface and have started with the first chapter.

I listened to a [podcast episode](https://www.abc.net.au/radionational/programs/philosopherszone/remembering-stanley-cavell/10033884) in honor of Stanley Cavell.

### Writing

Transferred a poem to my forest garden: [[poems/dahil sa mga bagay na hindi nakikita]].

### Photography

I invited Benjie to a photography project I am currently dubbing LBLP. He agreed and he sent me the first photo. It is a good practice of letting go and letting things flow, something I might need to acculturate myself more.

### Walking

In the morning, I walked to UP to do my journaling there. I also took photographs. I stopped for a while on a bench under trees at the park near CEM. I did my 5MJ there. Then I walked towards the Fertility tree where I journaled.

In the evening, after Poppy was speyed, Lea and I walked to Freedom Park and sat on one of the benches. There we talked. She shared about a podcast she was currently listening to about a couple who left Christianity and are now probably atheists. Through questioning, I learned that in terms of doctrines, Lea no longer believes in Christianity. She is currently an agnostic and doesn't really have a strong philosophical question that bothers her. She is simply listening to the podcasts because she resonates with the experiences of the couple. In a way, it is therapy, healing her wounds, or even just being aware that she has wounds. She shared that this was a big thing to most of us who left our childhood religions because the indoctrination happened very early in our lives. I remembered how it was mentally painful to leave the church, my brain restructured itself until I was okay. I wasn't aware that I may have had those trauma. I also remembered by listening to Lea the idea I first encountered from [[Austin Kleon]], the question really of what kind of parent I will be: Will I mould the child into what I want him to be? Or will I be a librarian, giving him the resources he needs and letting him blossom into his own self based on resonance.

### Projects

### Others

- Lea and I watched Community.
- Lea and I watched Dollhouse.

## [[2022-10-13 seeds]]
