# 2022.01.16

I am grateful for:

1. Playing Ticket to Ride with Lea's family and friends last night. It was wonderful to play this game again and win it.
2. Learning all of that about building a site via hugo. It feels amazing to learn something new. My VIA strength was used and I was indeed happier because I was in flow.
3. Watching the Eternals. It is a deeply philosophical film that makes you wonder whether it is right to go against nature and rebel or not.

"I am more than capable of maintaining my mental health."

# Review

## Studies

I continued reading Craig Mod’s TBPO newsletter.

## Projects

### Thoreau website

I started writing content for the website. I started by translating Thoreau’s first journal entry about the mackerel sky. I tried writing it down using the Netlify CMS, uploading a photo through the CMS too. I also tried to caption the image with the name of its creator from Flickr. But I started getting problems. The most glaring of which started after I placed a button at the end of the page. This just destroyed my menu. I didn’t know what caused the situation, but I decided to remove the CMS altogether. I wasn’t able to solve the probelm in the morning so I waited until night.

I realized that this is perhaps something normal that a programmer goes to. Redoing something only to create more problems. But redoing could show what the problem is. That is what happened to me. I recreated the site, for my efforts not to go to waste, I also started documenting the creation. The problem definitely started when I put that button on the homepage.

Now, as I am writing this, I think Hugo was reading the pages non-existent. The button seems to cause the problem but it is perhaps the act of linking the index.md with other pages which causes the crash. In short, the index.md idea seems to be fragile. What I might do is to check the repository of the author’s website and see how he created his homepage. Was it a custom template?

## Others

Played another game of Ticket to Ride with Lea’s family.

Continued watching Master of None.

