# 2022.01.17

I am grateful for:

1. Seeing my cats play under the curtain a while ago. All the more reason why I need to slow down and not always think about productivity. I need to learn how to savor more.
2. My social filled week last week. A much-needed week of companionship. The next three days will be days of solitude. And I am more ready for them.
3. Nine more days of freedom. I'll be able to accomplish the Thoreau website (must finish today). Then perhaps design the temporary site via Wordpress.

"I am happy with my solitude."

# Reviews

## Studies

I continued reading APOW Chapter 13 Pilgrimage.

## Projects

### Thoreau website

I was able to solve the entire problem of my website by changing index.md with _index.md. Yes, a single underscore broke my entire website, and I couldn’t have known about this if I didn’t repeat building it from the ground and if I didn’t read the documentation on homepage templates in Hugo.

I started writing copies for the three pages in the website. Then I uploaded a new photo in the About page. At first I couldn’t render the image. Then I realized, I need to put a slash at the beginnin go the uploads directory (/uploads/thoreau.jpg). This was unlike how I inserted an image in the homepage. It didn’t require a slash.

After finishing all of these, I replaced the old directories in the local Github repository with the new directories and files. I commited then pushed it in Github and viola! My site is done. I shared it to Lea.

### Temporary vinceimbat.com

I started reading about how I could transfer the domain name to Google domains. According to the advice I found, it is best practice to renew the domain in the current registrar and then initiate the transfer to the new registrar.

## Others

I continued watching Master of None.

I went to LB Evacuation Center to get my first dose with Lea.

I walked at UP.

