# 2022-07-13

## I am grateful for:
1. Yesterday's research on Thoreau.
2. Lea for listening to me synthesize my research for the day.
3. Talking with my mom this morning.

## Affirmation

"My life is my art."

## Review
### Philosophy etc.

I wrote on my journal that I think it is couragous to choose to continue living even if this life was not our choice in the first place.

I improved and transferred to my Talahardin the outline I wrote for [[thoughts/my quest]].

I started processing my literature notes on [[Thoreau and the literary excursion — Buell]].

I also wrote some new notes:
- [[We did not choose to exist]]
- [[thoughts/my quest]]
- [[The writing I do in private is my most important writing]]
- [[The magnum opus of Thoreau is his journal]]
- [[The technicalities of your craft could cloud your real purpose]]
- [[Thoreau prioritized content over style in his writing]]

The question I set out to research was [[How did writing travel excursions help Thoreau fulfill his quest?]] I tried looking for new references, but it was difficult and it seems that the most important resources to answer the question is that with Buell and Thoreau: The Quest and the Classics. That said, I did read The movement of Thoreau's Prose and the beginning of The Experience of the Sacred in Thoreau's Week.

I started reading Lost Intimacy in American Thought by Mooney. It is an interesting book whose thesis is that there is a circle of philosophers who beheld reality rather than theorize about it. They put themselves at the middle of it rather than detach themselves from it. These are philosophers who I have never heard of (mostly), but are associated with Thoreau. I was also attracted to Mooney's lyrical writing. I checked if he has a blog (he does although unupdated), then subscribed to it.

Before sleeping I also tried reading The Inward Morning by Bugbee.

### Writing

### Photography

### Walking

### Projects

### Others

- I continued watching Trying.

## Field notes

[[2022-07-13 seeds]]