# 2022.03.07

I am grateful for:

1. Finally... solitude.
2. A delicious and joyful experience at Ippon Yari yesterday.
3. Champy and Shorty getting back to their usual strength.

"I will learn more about my purpose today."

# Review

## Studies

I read quite a lot of CM writing today.

I journaled about how to approach the project of understanding purpose.

I reviewed my unprocessed notes on purpose inside my Talahardin.

I re-read the last chapter of What Does It All Mean? to refresh me with the question of the meaning of life. From the chapter, I was reminded that the question boils down to either there is meaning or there is none. For life to have a meaning, it has to attach itself to something larger than itself (nation, God, future generations). However, those larger things that one attaches to has to have an ultimate purpose. If they are not the ultimate explanation to life, then they have to attach to something larger than themselves too. We can continue this infinite regress or just accept the alternative: “Life is inherently meaningless.” This isn’t that bad though because it means we can create our own purpose. It also means that we shouldn’t take ourselves that seriously, because there is no large point to all of these anyway. The best way to live is to take what is in front of us and respond to that appropriately.

I also started reading the encyclopedia article: [https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/life-meaning/](https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/life-meaning/)

## Projects

## Others

- I continued watching Ozarks.
- I rearranged my money in the bank to separate money for expenses and emergency fund.
- I did my first walk at UP since coming home from a 2 week vacation.
- I talked to Mama and Papa.
- Lea and I used the Best Self deck for the first time.

