---
title: "2022-08-28"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. 

## Affirmation

## Review
### Philosophy etc.

Started listening to an interview with Ursula Goodenough about religious naturalism. In the interview, she didn't have a really good answer to the question what is religion or spirituality. I found it interesting that she got into the field without any theological or possibly philosophical background. She was simply a scientist. The best thing I took from her though is her argument that a belief in God is simply what I would call an add-on. It isn't necessary, she says, in living a "moral" life. Being in nature, feeling in awe of creation and the meta narrative of evolution should be enough to spur one into moral action. Having a God is not necessary although she understands why some people need that.

I also started exploring Wildred Cantwell Smith and his book The Meaning and End of Religion. I find him interesting because he is a methodological individualist.

I also started exploring D.G. Leahy, which I first met through [[andrew j. brown]]. I started reading [Introduction to D. G. Leahy](https://www.academia.edu/65554648/_Introduction_to_D_G_Leahy_A_Quick_Start_Guide_for_the_Vexed_and_Perplexed_?auto=download).

### Writing

### Photography

### Walking
- Walked at Carabao Park—Royal Palm—Sandoval—Narra—Bridge—Juliano—Pancho—Viado—Roxas—Pili—Aglibut—Dawis—Ela—Lopez—Santos—Diamond—Bulusan—Pearl—Arayat—Sapphire—Mt. Data

### Projects

### Others
- Watched Nice Guys while at the inn.
- Ate at King Bee.
- Watched Mythic Quest.
- Watched Severance.