# 2022-05-01

## I am grateful for:
1. An amazing month of May.
2. This trip of mine.
3. Being with Tantan under this Mango tree now.

## Affirmation
"I am able to live in relative solitude once more, away from my family."

## Review
### Studies

Read a feature on [Craig Mod](https://www-nrc-nl.translate.goog/nieuws/2022/04/28/ook-langs-de-lelijke-route-hebben-mensen-verhalen-a4118632?_x_tr_sl=auto&_x_tr_tl=en&_x_tr_hl=en&_x_tr_pto=wapp): 

### Projects

**My writing life project**

I started reading The Living Mountain's first chapter. It felt a bit disconnected.

I started reading Pilgrim at Tinker Creek (three chapters). This was what I was looking for. It was poetic. It engaged profound questions. I did not see profound answers (i.e., the philosophical side is not that good), but I was entertained anyway. And it was set in a very simple environment. A creek. Not as profound as a mountain or a desert.

### Others

- Bonded with Tantan, really well before I went home. I was originally going to write my diary alone, but he asked where I was going and he said he wanted to go. I was leaving so I also wanted to be with my nephew even if I wanted to write too.
- Tantan and I went under the mango tree, where I and Lea once journaled together. I told him about how a goat peed and pooped in front of Lea.
- We watched the goats with joy, and saw other spectacles.
- We then went back to the kubo and drew each other (blind contour self-portraits).
- Two goat kids went near us and observed them.
- Bade goodbye and went to Tuliao at 12. Waited there while reading for two hours.
- Went to see Labrador, Sual, and Alaminos for the first time since the pandemic (for Alaminos, may be longer).
- Translated an Annie Dillard quote: [[Sino ang nasasabik sa iisang sentimo?]]
- Had dinner (for free) with Kuya Eric and his crew.
- Arrived at Calamba and slept at Lea's house.

## Field notes

[[vignettes/a morning at alog with tantan]]