---
title: "2022-08-16"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. Bonding with the entire family yesterday.
2. Finally uploading my site online and seeing it live.
3. The homepage copy that came to me yesterday.

## Affirmation

"I shall start gardening and exploring the wilderness."

## Review
### Philosophy etc.

New notes
- [[Transcendentalism]]
- [[Bertrand Russell]]
- [[Romantic excursion]]
- [[Ideas on how to explore lyrical philosophy in my work]]

### Writing

- Wrote, edited, and published [[uman/007]].
- I instituted a new format for my newsletter writing. Lilim walking narratives will be integrated to Uman whenever applicable. I will be sending one newsletter a month containing links to changes in the forest garden.
- I looked for a way to easily write my newsletter in Obsidian and publish it easier. I decided to only share the lead paragraph on the newsletter and include a link to the rest of the article.

### Photography

### Walking

- Walked around for 30 minutes in the evening.

### Projects

[[Project log - Forest garden publishing]]

- I read ["The Garden and the Stream"](https://hapgood.us/2015/10/17/the-garden-and-the-stream-a-technopastoral/), and took highlights using Instapaper.
- I tried setting up Operand, but to no avail.
- I tried exploring TinyLetter and why mind gardeners seem to love it. Along the way, I discovered that there are opensource newsletter software.
- I added my Goog Analytics to my site.
- I fixed problems with email forwarding in my custom email and reauthenticated it in Mailerlite.
- Discovered that MD names with apostrophes don't work well when publishing.
- Tried playing around the design of tinyletter embed signup form and copyin how Andy Matuschack and Tom Critchlow did it in their sites.
- Embedded a Mailerlite signup form in my site's footer.

### Others

- Bonded with my nephew and nieces.
- Ate Mau finished her ligation.
- Continued watching Severance.

