# 2022-04-01

I am grateful for:

1. Passing the manual quality check with a score of 85.
2. The month of March - lots of travels and connection with family and friends.
3. The opportunity to grow through this experience with Scribendi.

"I will make April a worthwhile month."

# Review

## Studies

I journaled about an overview of my life areas in March.

I continued reading Transcend Chapter 7 on peak experiences. I read about healthy self-loss, which is related to a quiet ego, which, in turn, is related to a lot of healthy personality traits. Healthy self-loss is related to a state where one is completely in the present moment (the hypoegoic state). When one is totally present, self-consciousness vanishes. I also read about awe, the spiritual experience of everyone. I learned that awe is produce out of a mix of emotions that don’t usually go together: fear and ecstasy. I took the awe scale and had a below average grade. I think I may have used the wrong experience, or I really do score low in awe. I also read about the role of mind-altering substances in the experience of peak experiences. Interestingly, the interview I listened to with SBK talked about drugs.

## Projects

### Lea's finances

Lea and I went to Milkfridge to talk about her finances. We were able to:

- Create her calendar of expenses that we both can see via Dollarbird.
- Set a schedule for her monthly financial review (first day of the month).
- Set a schedule for when she will log her expenses daily (before our call).
- Set a schedule for when she will save (fourth day of the month) and how (get money from Harrah, and send it to the ING account).
- Wrote a list of categories of income and expenses that are meaningful to her.
- Review her financial goals, which I set for her.

## Others

- I conducted my monthly financial review.
- I walked at Doña Aurora and Heliciona Street.
- I continued watching Narcos.

