---
title: "2022-12-23"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. Students starting to leave for the holidays, lessening the crowds for us at least until January 2?
2. This light that I now enjoy from Lea's room. Perhaps my journaling session will be better.
3. Being calm and collected. I feel like I am slowly going back to my true self.

## Affirmation

"My main priority right now is furnishing the LMS for me and for Lea."

## Review

I journaled about my projects for 2023. I wrote that I will focus on building Lea a minimum viable LMS and how my application for ProofreadingPal should be scheduled. I reflected on my impressions from reading Melchor Orpilla's first poem in his first book.

Lea and I finished Dash and Lily while having lunch.

I reviewed the email from ProofreadingPal and decided to create a plan for how to address applying there. I reviewed SudHusl reviews on PenguinFreelancers and Reedsy as well as Scribendi. These reviews gave me the idea on how to approach going back to offering editing and proofreading in the near future.

I read [The 8 Best Proofreading Courses for Editors and Writers](https://blog.reedsy.com/freelancer/proofreading-courses/) where I learned about Proofed, a company that hires graduates of a paid course from [Knowadays](https://knowadays.com/) (about Php 20,000). This browsing and researching showed me other paths to follow as an editor or proofreader.

I walked at Madamba, Viado, and Juliano. When I got home, Lea and I watched Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 2 while eating dinner and dessert.

## [[2022-12-23 seeds]]
