---
title: "2022-12-07"
---
## I am grateful for:

1. Last night's walk under a full moon. A poem was coming to me.
2. My new shoes. I hope to use it for as long as possible.
3. This opportunity today to think and try things out in my day job project.

## Affirmation

"I am able to reframe my problems so I could open myself to new possibilities."

## Review

I journaled about ways on [[how to make editing enjoyable]]. I also listed actions I can take to move my Next Day Job project.

I added the following poem drafts into my forest garden of the mind:
- [[poems/malurem]]
- [[poems/kakisir]]

I fixed my note on [[vocabulary words]] by adding separate notes for:
- [[English vocabulary words]]
- [[Filipino vocabulary words]]
- [[Pangasinan vocabulary words]]

While having lunch by myself, I watched two episodes of Derry Girls on the big screen.

I conducted a weekly review.

Before going for a walk, I contacted Czyka Tumaliuan at Kwago and asked her about how independent publishing could help the plight of Pangasinenses. She immediately replied and provided her emails so Sir Melchor could send his CV and manuscript. I sent this good news to Sir Melchor.

From 5:30 to 7:30 pm, I walked at Irrigation Canal Road.

In the evening, I flowed while rewriting the notes I took in [[thoughts/day job model]]. I also started writing literature notes for [[private/creating a life worth living - lloyd]]. Doing these made me realize that instead of finding the ideal day job, what I need to design is my entire livelihood system. I need to find a safety net, then build an ideal day job (or business), then start side hustles, and improve my investments.

I also wrote a draft of the outline to rewrite [[My life plan]].