---
title: "2022-12-24"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. This warm place.
2. Having Lea with me on this Christmas advent day.
3. This really good hot chocolate.

## Affirmation

"Life is wonderful."

## Review

In the morning, Lea and I walked towards Freedom Park and sat there to meditate on one of the benches. After meditating, we got very cold of the wind so I suggested we go to Siento. But Siento was closed so we went decided to go to Taza Mia.

Taza Mia was perfect. We only shared the space with two other couples throughout our four-hour stay there. I had carrot cake and tsokolate. Lea has blueberry cheescake and hazelnut coffee. I think I have tasted one of the richest tsokolates ever!

There, I read one poem from Sir Rofel and another from Sir Melchor. I then started journaling. I journaled about the James Clear quote about being courageous to eliminate things that don't directly feed what one wants. The quote made me realize that I could only take in work that has a large ROI based on the time I spend in it.

I then drew a diagram. At the center is what I want: "An independent creative and contemplative life". Around that are my life areas and branching out from them are the specific things and people that directly feed what I want. I also wrote some goals for 2023 arranged according to priority. Lastly, I wrote a couple of principles for creating or using an LMS.

When we started to feel hungry, we decided to go and look for any open karenderia at Ruby Street near Raymundo gate. No karenderia was open, so we opted to try the litson sa banga restaurant which was the only establishment open in the area. We glad we did! It is the best lechong manok that I have tasted in a long time. Plus they gave us free angko and cucumber lemonade.

After eating, we went home. I learned how to use the kanban plugin in Obsidian and started to convert my goals masterlist into a kanban to track it better.

By evening, Lea and I decided to exchange gifts. She gave me a set of shirts, sweatshirt, and hoodie. The clothes felt great. I gave her the blouse which she also wore.

We walked to Danielito's, feeding the cat along the way, for our date but the resto was closed. We walked toward Grove to look for alternatives. We tried Samyupsalamat but they were closed too. We decided to opt for Sam G and had an okay dinner that filled us up. After dinner, we walked to Freedom Park once more but had to go back because it started drizzling.

Back at home, we played Betrayal with just the two of us. It was surprisingly fun even if a bit confusing.

I prepared for bed after.
