---
title: "2022-11-22"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. Being able to write about my past week and find something useful that others might use in their own journeys.
2. Everything I went through last week.
3. All the kind-hearted people in the world.

## Affirmation

"I will make the most of this day to design a beautiful life I will be proud of."

## Review

I journaled about [[my workview vs my lifeview]].

I created the following notes:
- [[My workview]]
- [[My lifeview]]
- [[contentment is easier to attain than happiness - bond]]
- [[power vs peace - clear]]

I also published [[essays/a metaphysical walk]] on the website.

Cris sent me the [link](https://iching.ph/2022/03/15/oracle-sounds/) to the article that presents Rem's collaboration with him. Through this, I also learned about Cris' group [Gentle Universe](https://gentleuniverse.blogspot.com/).

I looked at a few open jobs at LinkedIn.

Lea and I continued watching Ancient Apocalypse while eating lunch.

I performed a weekly review.

I discovered A Book of Simple Living by Ruskin Bond. I also discoverd Ross Gay's work.

Austin Kleon opened some of his paywalled content, so I started to read and watch one about [how he uses his brush pen](https://austinkleon.substack.com/p/the-magic-of-the-brush?utm_source=substack&utm_medium=email). The article has links to some tutorial from Lynda Barry, which I heartily watched.

I organized the LBLP Google Drive.

I continued reading Designing Your Life Chapter 3, which asked us to create a Good Time Journal.

I walked to Lantican—Juliano—Freedom Park—Royal Palm.

I had dinner while watching the first episode of the season 5 of The Crown.

I reconciled YNAB and washed the dishes.

## [[2022-11-22 seeds]]
