# 2022.02.08

I am grateful for:

1. This new day of solitude, an opportunity to go back to my studies and life work.
2. Yesterday's work sessions at Lea. It was quiet upstairs.
3. Lea's love and support.

"I can articulate my purpose, vision, and mission."

# Review

## Studies

I journaled about what I need to focus on based on my mission, vision, and purpose. I have nine priorities:

1. Mindfulness
2. Understanding
3. Life management system
4. Physical health
5. Mental health
6. Sustenance
7. Self-expression
8. Relationships
9. Facilitation

I continued processing highlights in APOW Chapters 21-23.

## Projects

### Learn web development

I fast read an article that validated once more why I will stay in Hugo.

I continued learning web development. I finished the intermediate HTML section of the course.

- I learned how to use the input action function in forms.
- I created a contact me text area where people could submit queries directly via email.
- I learned how to use the “name” attribute in forms to tag specific information in the input.
- I learned how to publish a site online through Github Pages.

I also started diving into the Introduction to CSS.

- It was definitely more difficult to follow. But perhaps this was mainly because everything was new to me.
- I learned how to write inline CSS codes.
- I learned how to change the background of the body using color names and hexcode.
- I learned how to use internal CSS codes, which are placed at the <head> and applies to the indicated parts of the page globally.
- I learned that all elements of a web page are just boxes and that through CSS, their heights and widths can be changed using exact pixel values or percentages (i.e., percentage relative to the screen). The Chrome extension Pesticide is useful in seeing these boxes.
- I learned that html elements have default CSS characteristics that need to be overwritten to achieve the specific desired look. For example, the <hr> element has a specific border-style that needs to be turned off to see CSS changes.

## Others

I had a very centering walk at Pili Drive.

Continued watching The Lost Daughter.

