# 2022.01.15

I am grateful for:

1. Going to Calamba later to bond with Lea's family once again.
2. Getting a stronger grasp of Hugo and using templates.
3. Seeing Cheska and her sister.

"There are a thousand reasons to live."'

# Reviews

## Studies

## Projects

### Thoreau website

I learned how to push the hugo site folder files into a repository in GitHub via GitHub desktop client. I followed the following steps:

1. I built a repository in GitHub. I used the build settings here: [https://jpanther.github.io/congo/docs/hosting-deployment/](https://jpanther.github.io/congo/docs/hosting-deployment/)).
2. I cloned the repository into my laptop. It went to Documents/Github.
3. I copied the original KNU into the cloned repository.
4. I then downloaded the GitHub desktop client and used it to push changes into the “original” repository in GitHub.

I noticed that there were some folders from the original folder that were not uploaded, including the themes and data folders. But they don’t contain files anyways and they don’t seem to break the site, so I just ignored them. I then deployed it.

I then purchased a domain from Google domains: kaliskisnaulap.com. I learned that Google domains are really cheap. Unlike hosting providers that charge you for privacy, Google domains include that in their $12 (P600) price.

I then pointed the domain to netlify, which amazingly has an SSL certificate.

Lastly, I installed the Netlify CMS. I realized that a CMS really is an additional resource that makes maintainance a little more difficult. For simpler site building, working with markdown files might be better.

## Others

Lea and I went to SM to ask about walk-in vaccination.

I had a really delicious pork sinigang lunch.

I walked around Villa de Calamba.

We played Ticket to Ride.

We watched Marvel’s The Eternals.

