# 2022-04-04

I am grateful for:

1. A good night's rest. I'm finally able to take on the day.
2. Champy starting to come back upstairs and visit me.
3. All the peak experiences I ever had in my life.

"I am capable of transcending."

# Review

## Studies

I journaled about how the drive to see the world as it really is (inspired by curiosity and truth-seeking leads to a realization of the fleetingness of everything. This in turn leads to the realization that almost everything is precious, which then generates gratitude and awe. From all of these arises the motivation to live intentionally.

I continued reading Tanscend Chapter 8. I read how being in touch with one’s mortality can improve one’s well-being. Scott shared a game called The End, which he played along with others. The game prompted players to perform actions that made them feel like the end of their life was coming. It ended with all of them meeting in a cemetery and discussing what they felt. I shared this to Lea and we talked about death (I was really exposed to death a lot in the past few days).

A realization of our mortality make us realize what really is important: plateau experiences.

I also read How to Spend More Time in the B-Realm. I did this while sitting down in front of the large kapok tree.

## Projects

### IDs

Got barangay clearance. Went to UP Postal Office to try to apply for a renewal of my postal ID, but wasn’t able to finish the process.

### Credit Cards

Sent an email to Alyssa to help me file my request.

Applied for Citi Simplicity credit card.

## Others

Applied to hike Mt. Makiling on Friday.

I published Uman March 2022.

Watched Master of None 0301.

Watched Narcos 0301.

