# 2022.01.05

I am grateful for:

1. My walk yesterday with Lea.
2. Seeing Laguna de bay and Tadlak Lake while the sun is out.
3. Being able to progress in my annual review and seeing how I want this year to pan out.

“I have a wonderful life.”

# Review

## Studies

## Project

### Annual Review

I was able to get into a flow while writing my personal narrative vision for 2022. I discovered a good way to write the vision, which is to start by stating goals I know I want for each major life area (generating goals can be done by going through each sub-area, and that is why reviewing areas can be helpful before writing the personal narrative vision). I am so happy about how the vision turned out.

In the afternoon, Lea and I went to Cafelandia and sat there for more than an hour to talk about what we came out with. I read to her my lengthy PNV and shared my goals for January. She then shared her goals for 2022, highlighted the major ones, and I helped her identify her next actions.

### iPhone 7 Plus Repair

I intended to tick off this project last night but it got really bad. I set out to fix my iPhone 7 plus only to destroy it. Here are things I did wrong:

1. I didn't have the right screwdrivers. I was missing the tripoint screwdriver which really made the repair difficul and longer. I think I had one tripoint but it was bigger than the screws. I managed to remove them but it took too much time and I am afraid I may have damaged some parts along the way. I also didn’t have the right screwdriver for standoff screws. I was able to remove them easily using a flathead screwdriver, but it was a little difficult to put them back in using the same screwdriver.
2. I did the repair in the evening when there is little light and my eyesight is less optimal. If you are going to perform a repair for a phone again, make sure there is enough light and there is a lightstand.
3. I wasn’t particularly careful in tinkering. When separating the display, using the blue tool, I may have been less careful. When removing the two chords from the logic board, I may have damage something. I didn’t expect the repair to be this difficult.
4. I used a sharp tool that may have caused damage.
5. I lost a screw or two.
6. I didn’t have a magnetic board to put the screws in. It would have made the repair a lot easier and may have given me more mental energy to continue.

Despite the mistakes I did, what good did this experience brought me?

1. I was able to listen to several synthpop albums lol.
2. I am forced to evaluate my technological needs. Journaling made me realize how much I am still embedded in the Apple environment and leaving it won’t be easy because it will compromise my entire system.
3. I learned first-hand the difficulty that can be faced when someone does repairs. It’s like surgery. You can end up making the problem even worse.

## Others

Continued watching HIMYM.

Listened to these albums:

- BGM by Yellow Magic Orchestra
- Dare! by The Human League
- Hurry up, We’re Dreaming by M83 (my favorite)
- Minimum - Maximum by Kraftwerk

