---
title: "2022-12-30"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. Two consecutive nights that my sleep was good. I love how intentionality solves problems instantly. I want to keep this streak going.
2. Accomplishing two GTD moves with Lea yesterday.
3. Getting a reseta from Migs and availing my meds with a PWD discount.

## Affirmation

"Everything will be okay. You'll see."

## Review

I journaled about how I will tackle the sense of insecurity I am feeling right now as I recuperate from the Scribendi lost.

I created the following notes:
- [[you can only be at one state at any given moment]]
- [[self-forgetfulness]]
- [[contemplative exercises while walking]]
- [[poems/gabi sa campus]]
- [[poems/atungal]]

I cooked ginisang monggo while listening to [Intellectual Exoskelelons](https://josephnoelwalker.com/141-intellectual-exoskeletons-andy-matuschak/). In the last 30 minutes of the episode, Andy tried to explain his note-writing system in lay man's terms. What he emphasized was accretion. He observed that much of the work of knowledge workers are episodic. They involve short-lived events where the product, if anything, disappears in the ethos after the event. Andy's note-taking system defeats this tendency by having his notes re-appear as prompts for writing that incrementally progresses.

Lea and I ate lunch while watching Community.

After lunch, Lea and I did another LMS session where we performed Move 4.

I read [At Play in the Comedy of Survival](https://www.counterpunch.org/2015/04/10/at-play-in-the-comedy-of-survival/).

After this, we went to Taza Mia to have merienda and do work. I finished SEP 246.

Then, we bought burger and nachos to bring to Freedom Park. We had a little fight and talked things over then we had dinner while sitting on a log.

We walked after, at Juliano—Roxas—Viado—Madamba—Argañosa—Pili—Aglibut—Dawis—Ela. Along the way, we decided to spend the New Year by ourselves as we did last Christmas.

I bought us Moo ice cream then we walked home.

At home, we watched Extreme Job before sleeping.
