# 2022.02.20

I am grateful for:

1. Talking with Megs, Cams, and Bobet last night and seeing how they all are after all those time we haven't been together.
2. Seeing the beautiful sunset yesterday at the beach.
3. Being ok around Migs.

"I have great cousins."

# Review

## Studies

I discovered Geoff Nicholson, a writer who also uses the “humble” phrase “I am a writer who walks” to describe himself.

I read and took notes on Andy’s recap of 2021: [https://andymatuschak.org/2021/](https://andymatuschak.org/2021/). The bulk of my his discussion, which I found valuable was his insights about how to live better as a creative. His main thesis was to combine two kinds of actions: (1) Alleviate suffering in creative practice and (2) Make the practice more joyful. To alleviate creative suffering, Andy proposes drilling down on the root cause of the thoughts and opinions about ourselves that cause the suffering. Then, work with those. To make the creative practice more joyful, he proposes an emphasis on process over product. Based on his experience, the process gets better by letting his mind follow a trail of thought, being surprised by serendipitous connections, etc. In short, simply watching his own mind and being mindful of the little sensations he has while doing the work he wants to do.

He also shared some of the lessons he learned about his specific field: "tools for thought”. This got me thinking about looking for my professional space and whether one really exists—whether a community of practice that does what I want to do already exists and if there are models I could follow in doing my work. I think this trail of thought is what led me to typing “contemplative philosophy” in Google. Basically, I was looking for existing models on doing contemplation outside spiritual and religious contexts. This led me to the work of Ran Lahav and the philosophical practice movement.

I read Ran’s article Philosophical Practice as Contemplative Philosophy ([https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/Philosophical-Practice-as-Contemplative-Philosophy-Lahav/acb81ca1d60bfc797dfae1a7bb54016b72efe1f2](https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/Philosophical-Practice-as-Contemplative-Philosophy-Lahav/acb81ca1d60bfc797dfae1a7bb54016b72efe1f2)). In this article, I was introduced to philosophical practice, a 1980s (?) movement that aspired to make philosophy more accessible and useful. This movement employed philosophical counselling and philosophical cafes as its main methods. Ran, outlined four visions of philosophising: problem-solving, wisdom-inspired, critical-reasoning, and Platonic. His main thesis is that  philosophical counselling is useful but is not true philosophising. For true philosophizing to be truly useful, it has to help us transcend every day life and achieve what basically is the goal of transcendence, outlined for example by Scott Barry Kaufman.

In this article, I also learned about depth understanding, something I need to articulate to myself further. It makes sense. Understanding from pure reasoning is incomplete and might even be impossible. Understanding is both made up of reasoning and inarticulate aspects of our personhood. For Ran, the purpose of contemplative philosophy is to cultivate depth understanding. Ran has a dedicated website for the practice of contemplative philosophy: [https://dphilo.org/](https://dphilo.org/)

I then also read the history of the philosophical practice movement ([https://philopractice.org/web/history-ran-lahav](https://philopractice.org/web/history-ran-lahav)). One of my questions while reading all these was how was the movement connected with Alain de Botton, for example, who also advocated the practical use of philosophy in solving everyday problems, and whose School of Life even has a psychotherapy service.

## Projects

## Others

Migs and I hanged out at B Cafe at AB Fernandez, Dagupan. It was a really nice place.

Then we had early dinner at Casa Cusinero at Calasiao. The middle-eastern food was not nice.

