---
title: "2022-10-12"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. Lea, for being able to do all those cooking and cleaning up the dishes despite her being busy at work.
2. This new day. An opportunity to grow as a thinker and artist of life.
3. Existentialism

## Affirmation

"My past is filled with lessons to learn from and grow."

## Review
### Philosophy etc.

I continued reading the Inward morning and wote [[The Inward Morning Commentary 1952-09-29]]. His entry for this day talked about what is essential to man and the dance between universality and individuality in man.

Wrote [[Commentary on Inviations by Mary Oliver]].

While washing the dishes, I listened to an [interview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SEEa-7arfAw) with Patrick Flynn, the author of The Journal of Absolute Truth, a Substack publication I once subscribed to. The interview was about how he returned to catholicism.

The seed of doubt was planted into Pat when he was in gradeschool and exposed to evolution, which was entirely different from what he learned in Sunday school. This will lead him into philosophy and ultimately into atheism. But the more he got deep into atheism, the more things did not make sense. He made his return to theism, calling it simple, common, and solves a lot of problems like miracle accounts, etc.

He and his entire family are baptized catholics. When asked how he would respond to people hesitating to join the Catholic church because of the many scandals, he says that the scandals do not invalidate the teachings. The teachings stay true despite the acts of the teachers.

In its entirety, the interview failed to capture what could have been a good conversation. The movement of the mind should have been the focus of this interview. It leaves you wanting more. The explanation of the conversion was not clear and satisfying.

### Writing

Transferred poem [[poems/abung]].

### Photography

### Walking

### Projects

**Writing Inbox**
- I processed some notebooks from my Evernote. I deleted a lot of notes and transferred several I want to return to as md in my writing inbox.
- I returned to my nature journal entries and remembered those days. It is beautiful to remember them in such detail. Perhaps this was why Thoreau was so in love with walking and journaling.

### Others
- Lea and I watched House of the Dragon S01E08

## [[2022-10-12 seeds]]
