# 2022.03.03

I am grateful for:

1. Seeing the Baguio morning.
2. Maintaining my cool while being treated badly at UV Express at Farmer’s Market.
3. Arriving here at Los Baños safe and sound.

“Mama’s health will be alright.”

# Review

## Studies

I finished reading the “The Humanistic Psychology–Positive Psychology Divide” by Waterman. Waterman’s main thesis is that humanistic and positive psychology have deep philosophical differences that attempts to reconcile them will be difficult. Thus, he suggests that each branch of pscyhology should pursue their own work separately.

Humanistic and positive psychology differ in ontology of the human. For humanistic psychology, there is no human nature. Each individual becomes him or herself through accumulated experiences. On the other hand, positive psychology believes that human beings have an essence. Each human needs to find his or her unique essence and live according to it. Their ontologies influence how they conduct practical philosophy. Humanists are concerned with individual lives and long-term interventions. Positives favor short-term interventions applicable in the general public. Furthermore, the two branches differ in their epistemology. HPs favor qualitative methods, because these provide the rich data from individual research participants, while PPs favor quantitative methods witht the goal of finding overarching principles.

I also started re-reading “How to Create Your Own Religion.” This was inspired by my attempt to look for examples of individuals who have pursued independent thinking. I read the reviews of this book at Amazon and looked for other recommended books.

From the first two chapters, Bolleli was admonishing individuals to be interested with religion but be critical about it—let go of beliefs that are no longer useful to oneself. I also like his discussion on the fact that people create their own religion all the time. I like his crusade, his project. Perhaps a new “religion” or personal way of life is what I need to build. I also loved him pointing out the etymology of the word heresy, which simply mean “to choose.”

## Others

Left Baguio at 5:00 am. Saw the Baguio sunrise.

Went down at the Victory Liner bus stop at Sison after many years.

Listened to Duran Duran's Rio album.

Arrived at Cubao around 10 am. Got into some glitch with my ride back to Calamba.

Decided to go to HM transport station at Gil Puyat and rode the bus.

Arrived at Calamba by 1 pm, met Lea at SM, and had lunch at Zarks (for the first time in a while).

Went home to LB, saw the cats, did my errands.

Finished watching The Lost Daughter.

