---
title: "2022-11-14"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. Being able to write TLW 5 yesterday. It was a practice of writing and reviewing the past week.
2. Listening to Lea talk about her recent concerns while walking and sharing some wonderful moments with her at the softball field.
3. Slowly getting my "life curriculum" right.

## Affirmation

"I have enough time and power to begin my transformation to optimize my life."

## Review

I journaled about how I want every work I do to still arise from one digital garden. I also wrote about the different applications of the metaphor of walking and how life = the long walk.

I published TLW 5 on the website.

After processing my diary entry dated [[2019-07-20]], I wrote the note [[metaphysics and epistemology map out the terrain for the long walk]].

I also created a poem note: [[poems/naiiyak rin ang sansinukob]].

I transfered [[private/Translation of foreword for baybayin book]] into its own note.

Lea and I watched the documentary film Mission: Joy as part of the Global Joy Summit.

For about 45 minutes, I talked to Brian about how to tackle community-building using anarchic principles and styles. He offered to facilitate an open space workshop using appreciative inquiry to extract the principles from within the group.

I conducted a weekly review and read stuff from my email:
- Craig Mod's newsletters
- Photo Meditations
- Ben Hewitt
- Under the Net
- Tom Critchlow
- Austin Kleon

I walked alone to Pili Drive then to Copeland and Juliano. I sat down in front of the softball field for about 15 minutes before making my way back.

I had dinner while talking with Tantan, Via, Ate Mau, and Paeng.

I reconciled YNAB and finished processing my emails.

## [[2022-11-14 seeds]]
