---
title: "2022-10-29"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. 

## Affirmation

## Review

After the eulogy, we decided to stay overnight in the chapel until at least the earliest break of morning. Me, Ju, Benjie, Diwa, Claire, and Lea gathered around in a huddle and debriefed ourselves. The girls and Ju had to share to Claire the hurt they went through during the entire eulogy process. After all of that were released, I managed to share a few callings I am hearing on how to continue Rem's legacy. I was able to share that I felt a pastoral calling and writing Rem's biography and getting to know him deeper through his works. We were also able to talk about Rem's books and where best to keep them. When we felt that Claire needed to sleep, I retired, while Diwa and Benjie talked and Lea talked with Vanessa outside.

By 6:00 am, I woke up and prepared to leave. We left the chapel at 6:30 am and went home to LB by 8:30 am with Marky. Benjie left with us but dropped down at Sto. Tomas market. Along the way to LB, I tried talking to Marky, fulfilling the pastoral calling I am currently hearing. I shared Ira Glass' advice to him about the gap between our tastes and our skills and how we can bridge the gap by practice. I told him to not reject a cry from the heart specially if it is already screaming, to never doubt it.

When we arrived at home, we decided to sleep immediately. The electricity was gone by around 11 am. We debated whether or not to go to the internment. We decided not to proceed and it was the right decision. Claire and Rem's family were stranded as well as Diwa and the rest of Rem's friends who planned to follow.

Lea and I decided to separate our rooms to be more systematic.

Lea and I walked the flooded streets of LB under torrential rain and winds for food.

## [[2022-10-29 seeds]]
