# 2022-06-24

## I am grateful for:
1. Finishing Kissa by Kissa and being inspired more than ever to walk.
2. This challenge of identifying the lens to use when I walk.
3. The tasty food last night at the arab and indian resto.

## Affirmation

"What I want to do is within me already. All I need to do is uncover it."

## Review
### Studies

Created the following new notes:
- [[How to apply anarchy in a marriage?]]
- [[Can consciousness be objective?]]
- [[Which is more fundamental, amoralism or anarchy?]]

### Writing

I journaled and created an initial list of literature on writing that I could use to update my reading list.

I read the first chapter of Rob Macfarlane's book "Old Ways."

I continued reading Pilgirm at Tinker Creek.

I updated my Reading List at the blog.

Read Craig Mod's article ([https://craigmod.com/essays/a_need_to_walk/](https://craigmod.com/essays/a_need_to_walk/)). From there, I discovered Open City by Teju Cole.

Read the poem "In Praise of Walking": http://poem4us.blogspot.com/2012/07/in-praise-of-walking.html

I started reading "Hiking with Nietzsche."

### Photography

### Projects

**New Laptop**

Installed packages for Atom editor.

I learned that using a fan for the M1 Macbook Air 2020 has very minimal effects, although might help when it is hot. I also learned that I could have stayed with the baseline 58k Mac with 256 gb and I could've just bought an external drive. But this perspective is subjective and may be limiting.

I rewrote the snippets and web search shortcuts for Alfred.

### Others

- I asked for advice in the Congo discussion forums on how to change the font of the theme.
- Lea and I watched Swan Song. Brilliantly thought-provoking.

## Field notes

[[2022-06-24 seeds]]