# 2022-07-04

## I am grateful for:
1. Just going through that tough day yesterday and finally reinstalling the OS. I thought I will be going home early because of a broken laptop.
2. This spot where the wind blows in the morning.
3. The outline for Uman that I currently have.

## Affirmation

"I will finish Uman's draft today."

## Review
### Studies

### Writing

As my journaling session, I wrote an outline for Uman June. I then fleshed this outline out and wrote some more.

### Photography

I browsed a few photos by Alec Soth at archive.org here: https://archive.org/details/alecsoth04

I watched a video detailing the difference of Adobe Lightroom Classic and CC: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mAUNJnstdQE

I installed Lightroom Classic into my computer.

I edited our photos from the walk.

### Walking

4:30-5:30 pm
Balon Dalan-Botao to Carusocan Road-Bautista Road-Tita Loida

I read: https://craigmod.com/roden/004/ and discovered solvitur ambulando which I translated to Filipino as "Paglalakad ang makalulutas." I created an FB cover photo on canva with this translation.

### Projects

**Review Goals**

I read James Clear's article on goal-setting and took some notes on Zotero. Then I read his article on Warren Buffet's list. I pondered about the process and thought about how I can integrate it with my annual and monthly reviews. During my call with Lea, we made a quick application of this process. I think it helped Lea a lot. Meanwhile, I needed to redo the process, but it made it clear to me that my most important work in the coming months pertains to my life work.

I create a few new notes to facilitate my thinking on this goal-setting process.
- [[warren buffet list]]
- [[How to set goals]]
- [[Avoid-at-all cost life goals]]
- [[My life goals master list]]

### Others

- Watched Pachinko episode on the backstory of Hansu.

## Field notes