---
title: "2022-12-29"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. A very interesting and captivting movie we watched (but not finished) last night. I am sure we can extract a lot of knowledge from reflecting on it.
2. Fulfilling my goal to sleep early so I can wake up early to do more in the morning.
3. Discovering the power of pomodoro in motivating me to engage in focused work.

## Affirmation

"Today will be an awesome day!"

## Review

I journaled about what it means to live an interesting and meaningful life and how that translates to one's creative work. I wrote about Patreon, my newsletters, and wild success vs. mild success. Lastly, I created a schedule for Lea's LMS program for the coming days.

I wrote notes on:
- [[creative freedom]]
- [[Exchange economy]]

I created a calendar for the implementation of Lea's MV LMS project and created activities for GTD Move 3.

I read and highlighted the essay [Disenchantment and Dogma](https://salmagundi.skidmore.edu/articles/360-disenchantment-and-dogma) by William Deresiewicz.

After lunch, I continued working on Lea's LMS. Then after her call, I proceeded to teaching her GTD moves 2 (choosing capture tools) and 3 (doing a mindsweep).

After siesta, I had merienda while creating activities for Move 4.

By 5 pm, I walked toward Doña Aurora at UP and picked up a few good seeds (with a poem about solitary walking) along the way.

I bought a few groceries and meds for myself then went home to have dinner with Lea while finishing the last hour or so of Oro, Plata, Mata. It was a great film.

I slept after logging expenses.

## [[2022-12-29 seeds]]
