---
title: "2022-02-03"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. These raindrops falling peacefully outside my window.
2. Being awake, being alive, and having Lea with me in this morning.
3. Seeing Tantan and Via yesterday. They're all grown up.

## Affirmation

"I am on my way to fulfilling my calling."

## Review

### Studies

I continued reading Thich Nhat Hanh’s biography. I learned how he developed his unique Buddhist perspective. I read his poem “The Fire that Consumes My Brother”.

### Projects

#### Learn web development

I learned about the anatomy of html tags. Using the web archive, I saw the first look of Yahoo when it first launched in 1996. I used the Atom editor for the first time. I learned how to use the html boilerplate. I learned what the meaning of the charset is and what UTF+8 is. I read an article on the unicode but didn’t understand it enough. I learned that the website of some of the best programmers in the world are just in HTML. So, I tried building an html site. It was a bit easier because I already have some training on using Hugo. I learned how to make unordered and ordered lists in html. I learned that <em> is better to use than <i> to italicize content, and <strong> is better to use than <b> to bold content. This is because both of the latter transmits more info. I learned how to insert an image in my site using a URL or a file within my directory. I learned how to use multiple pages instead of just one webpage.

### Others

I walked with Lea at UP in the night. I tried to practice mindful listening to her, but I think I failed. I also failed to show compassion to someone approaching me.

Lea and I ate at the chicken wings joint without being asked for a vaxx card.

I drank beer while reading Brion’s poems from Kapag Natagpuan Kita.

I wrote two blockout poems but shared only one, “Calendar Method.” It was another hit.
