# 2022-06-13

## I am grateful for:
1. This new opportunity to continue learning who I am and articulating what I want to do with my life.
2. The tasty pasta salad Lea prepared yesterday.
3. My ability to take a step back and evaluate my situation before making a decision.

## Affirmation

"I could delay gratification."

## Review
### Studies

I journaled about questions and initial thoughts about where I want to bring my photography.

### Writing

I continued reading Pilgrim at Tinker Creek.

### Photography

I started watching CM's video on his photo backup strategy. He backups his iphone photos via iCloud and creates local backups in each of his devices. Meanwhile, he saves all his DSLR photos in a sandisk then backs them up together with his entire PC into the cloud via Backblaze. He also creates his own backup of his entire PC and Sandisk via CCC. He has a separate library for the photos he has processed for projects. He puts them in Dropbox. Recently, he has included a NAS in his system to save his videos. Then backs it all up to Glacier.

I also installed Adobe LR to my PC but cancelled as I realized I don't need it yet and perhaps it is wrong to move all my iphone photos there.

I continued watching Mike James' free course. I learned how to use tap to focus, think about my intention before taking a photo, use that intention with storytelling when editing. I also learned how to clean the lens of my camera. I then did his creativity challenge of taking a photo of one subject in 9 different ways. I chose the Makiling statue. While doing the photoshoot, I used the focus in PRO mode at the LR mobile camera. In the evening, I watched his editing process in Snapseed.

I then encountered Sean Tucker from a podcast interview I listened to while washing the dishes. I watched his channel trailer, book trailer, and a video he has about authenticity. I was excited because here is an active contemporary photographer who is intentional in infusing philosophy in his photography.

### Projects

### Others

- My initial contribution to Pag-ibig MP2 finally appeared in my Virtual Pag-ibig account. I contributed another 5k for this month.

## Field notes