---
title: "2022-11-13"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. My journaling sessions in the past two days. They have been fruitful and enlightening as to what I need to prioritize.
2. Finally finishing writing the minutes for Tuloy Daloy's first meeting.
3. Learning that my nephew and nieces miss me already.

## Affirmation

"I am going to take care of this mind and body."

## Review

I journaled about my new life areas and how they behave as tags. After this, I created a linearity to tackling each of my life areas: the first walk.

I updated my note for [[My life areas]] then created individual notes for new ones:
- [[Overseeing]]
- [[Restoring]]
- [[Sustaining]]
- [[thoughts/creating]]

I also wrote the notes:
- [[Live your life as if it was a walk]]
- [[metaphor of the well vs. metaphor of walking]]
- [[thoughts/ginhawa poetics]]

I ate sinigang na salmon head for lunch while watching Derry Girls with Lea.

After lunch, I started writing [[essays/walking and the well]].

I had merienda while reading the latest issue of The Pause. From there, I learned about the Global Joy Summit, which I signed up for.

Lea and I had a walk at Viado. I took her at the softball field and we sat there for about 15 minutes just listening to the insects and frogs and feeling the cold wind while looking at some starts in the sky. We walked to Raymundo and ate at Crookyah for the first time. We didn't like it.

Back home, I continued writing TLW 5 while eating leche flan. It was too sweet.

After publishing the issue, Lea and I watched The Gentlemen. It was a good movie.

I slept after winning an ML game.