# 2022-07-19

## I am grateful for:
1. Receiving good feedback about Lilim 03(07) esp on the photos, which I didn't really expect.
2. Being able to feed those stray cats again.
3. A good sleep. I think I feel less sleepy than yesterday.

## Affirmation

"I will savor this day."

## Field notes

## Review
### Philosophy etc.

Listened to Stanley Cavell's lecture on the Uncanniness of the Ordinary while I was cleaning the sink and the bathroom. I then complemented this with listening to a BBC episode on the history of ordinary language philosophy.

I understood Cavell's lecture very poorly for the most part, but I do remember that ordinary language philosophy seems to react to skepticism. Cavell also mentioned Thoreau's concepts of "nearness" and of "the day." He mentioned Walden as the philosophical text with the strongest influence on him, but it wasn't clear from his lecture how that influence manifests. I need to read more about this link especially because Mooney says that Cavell completed Thoreau and Emerson's project, whatever that is.

The BBC episode helped me understand that the ordinary language philosophy was a reaction to the attempt by Bertrand Russell and the like to create a specialized language for philosophers based on logic. They argue that words and concepts cannot be understood in isolation, but in how they are used in everyday life. One if not the most important proponent of ordinary language philosophy is Wittgenstein.

### Writing

I continued reading Walden.

I started processing my highlights from DIY MFA. I transferred [[My writing life inventory]] from my diary to my Talahardin.

### Photography

The camera arrived today, so I unboxed it, put the strap on, charged the battery, and set the date. Unfortunately, I didn't have a memory card with me (just ordered one from Shopee), so I can't take photos with it yet. I walked around LB to look for the right memory card. Saw a 32 GB Transcend memory card that was P950. Too expensive for too little storage.

### Walking

### Projects

### Others

- Continued watching Acapulco.
- Lea and I cooked bread tuna pie and ate it together for merienda.