---
title: "2022-08-30"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. Yesterday's walk at my forest garden.
2. Lea for being able to send that message, finally.
3. This morning, this hour, this moment.

## Affirmation

"I am called to befriend wisdom."

## Review
### Philosophy etc.

I wrote [[The Inward Morning Commentary 1952-08-31]], which was a continuation of Bugbee's thoughts on wonder.

I wrote the following note:
- [[Combine analytical and lyrical philosophy in one practice]]

I continued reviewing my highlights from the concept of religion and wrote the following notes:
- [[A supernatural realm exists separate from the natural]]
- [[Platonism]]
- [[Substantive definitions of religion]]
- [[Functional definitions of religion]]
- [[The social genus concept of religion can be local or universal]]
- [[The concept of religion originally applied to individuals]]
- [[Monothetic definitions of religion]]
- [[Double-sided monothetic definitions of religion]]
- [[Polythetic definitions of religion]]
- [[The true, the beautiful, and the good]]

I then switched to thinking about spirituality by reviewing all my notes with the word spirituality and spiritual in it and reviewing the introduction to the book [[The Philosophy of Spirituality]].

### Writing

I transferred the vignette [[vignettes/Ang mosque sa bulusan street]] into my forest garden.

### Photography

### Walking

### Projects

### Others
- Updated Quartz.
- Finished watching Look Both Ways.
- Continued watching Mythic Quest.
- Did a weekly review.

## [[2022-08-30 seeds]]