---
title: "2022-11-16"
---
## I am grateful for:

1. The new challenge in front of me. To find work. To be humbled back into Earth.
2. The walk I had this morning, an opportunity for me to confront the realities of my situation.
3. Being alive. O being alive.

## Affirmation

"Don't worry. Everything will turn out alright."

## Review

In the morning after going to the restroom, I did the bad habit of checking my email. There, I read an email informing me that I was removed from the Scribendi roster. I shared the news to Lea and she consoled me. We both tried sleeping again but to no avail.

I re-read an [article](https://aeon.co/essays/forget-prophecy-the-i-ching-is-an-uncertainty-machine) I read way back about the I Ching as an uncertainty machine. It convinced me that sans the wuwuness that the I Ching has been used for, it can be, and was very useful, for artists in generating ideas for their work. Many times, from my experience, it has affirmed my own ideas or opened up new possibilities in how I think. Therefore, I consulted it about the recent challenge that I faced.

I did a I Ching reading about what to do next after this job loss ([[private/2022-11-16 job loss]]). Then I took a walk to UP to journal and clear my head. I sat down in one of the benches at Freedom Park.

I shared to Lea some of my realizations while journaling at UP. She reacted to one thing I said abou why I am learning all my lessons the hard way. She shared me a newsletter article that talked about the experience of one woman whose process was the same. She had to go through tough challenges just to change. She intended that she will aspire to improve her life and when things start to go south, she will need two gentle feathers before getting a hard rock. She needs to respond to those feathers and not wait for the hard rock to come before making changes.

When I came back from the walk, I started doing my laundry.

Lea and I had lunch while watching Community.

After lunch, I continued doing my laundry while listening to a [podcast episode](https://femails.libsyn.com/i-got-laid-off-heres-how-to-navigate-a-layoff-at-work-prepare-for-job-uncertainty) the experience of being laid off and what to do about it. I also explored some possible books to read. I came to one that is interesting in particular: [The Unemployment Guide](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0578520990/ref=as_li_tf_il_nodl?ie=UTF8&tag=boorio-20&linkCode=as2&camp=217145&creative=399349&creativeASIN=0578520990&dplnkId=a691d728-ca75-42d8-9094-892a38fc9133) by Melissa Fleury.

I paid our remaining balance for the Ginhawa Tanay retreat and our water bill.

While eating merienda, I watched a [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E7aNCkKF-PQ) from Robert Kiyosaki about job is for losers. This was after I listened to a [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cJAi_6guKYA) about the need to have a job while building your business.

In the early evening, I walked with Lea to Pili then to Freedom Park. We talked about Sariah etc. She left early because she was going to attend their second group coaching call. I went to Savemore to buy food etc. I got caught up under a strong rain.

I had dinner while watching Derry Girls.

I washed the dishes while listening to a mindset coach about his reaction after learning he was laid off. He said his rule was that he has 5 minutes to feel pissed off etc., but after that it has to be in the past and his focus is to move on and think about what's next. I like this attitude.

I reconciled my finances then I started improving my translation of Mini's foreword.

I created a Tuloy-Daloy Facebook group.

I played two ML games before going to sleep.

## [[2022-11-16 seeds]]
