---
title: "2022-12-04"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. Articulating to myself (and to Lea) my intention to find a job similar to Scribendi and if not then support Lea in her work, while I look for other sources of income.
2. Seeing my extended family last night and having some fun.
3. This alone time and opportunity to commune with myself.

## Affirmation

"I am dedicating myself to a spiritual-philosophical and creative life."

## Review

I journaled in Pangasinan, just flow writing, trying to describe the scene that was unfolding in front of me. I then wrote and illustrated poem in Pangasinan using my brush pen: [[poems/kabuwasan ed cablong]].

I wrote, edited, formatted, and published [[tlw/008]].

In the afternoon, I walked at Irrigation canal. I greeted an old lady who immediately grabbed my arm. She asked me my name. I told it but since I know she won't recognize it, I mentioned the names of my grandparents. She said my lola was her cousin, since her mother and my great grandfater were cousins. That makes her a distant lola. She asked me to walk with her wherever I could bring her. She told me that she used to walk with some pregnant neighbors. Now that they have given birth, she has no one to walk with. She pointed at the houses of her children. She has six children. One is in the US, a Computer Science graduate who married a Filipino (?) working there. Another is in Israel. Another was in Bulacan (?). Three of her children have houses around her. One of them was rich. She owns the factory nearby, a bodega, which once was a factory of chicharon, but now held different goods. The lady's name was Anang Pinay. She pointed at the house of the current Barangay Captain. She said her husband died of heart attack the morning after Pacquiao's last fight. They brought him in a van. She was left at home. He was dead on arrival. Since then, seven years, Anang was alone. Now, she lives with a teenage girl, an apo (?). I told her I should get going as it was getting late. But I promised her I will come back and we will walk again. She said sorry, sorry. I didn't know you were going somewhere else.

I continued walking the Irrigation canal exiting at the provincial road but going back in to return. I looked up at the stars to look for planets and constellations.

At home, I had dinner while watching the season finale of The Crown. I then had another walk after dinner. I saw the constellation Orion, Aquarius, Pisces, Taurus, and Aries.

I accepted Mini's invitation to translate Sandy's foreword.

I looked for some alternatives to Scribendi that I could apply on. I updated my LinkedIn profile then used my free trial for LinkedIn Premium.

I talked with Lea about how we should view our parents correctly.

I slept after playing some ML.

## [[2022-12-04 seeds]]
