# 2022-05-24

## I am grateful for:
1. Being able to meditate while lying down without me sleeping. It was a good meditation session.
2. Feeling better this morning.
3. An extra day before I get back to work on Friday.

## Affirmation

"I am capable of making small changes that would improve my life."

## Review
### Studies

I journaled about budgetting my goals for the remainder of the year.

### Projects

**My Writing Life Project**

I continued revising Lilim 03(03). I read more about the bubuli or sun skink.

I continued reading DIY MFA, finished the last chapters. I learned about the difference between the ideal reader persona and reader archetypes. Ideal reader personas are imagined sketches of ideal readers, while reader archetypes are based on real-world research and data. I learned about how to create reader archetypes. I also learned about the different kinds of conferences and events I need to try out. I applied the lesson by browsing the FB page of Panitikan.ph and looking for available opportunities. I also learned about a strategy in networking, which shouldn't take three minutes or more. The main key to networking is determining what the other person needs and matching your goals with that need. The strategy involves: 1. Giving a compliment, 2. Asking a question (which is also a second compliment), and 3. Saying a request (which is usually something like, "I love this conversation but I know how busy you are, can we 
continue this conversation another time?"). I also learned the difference between submitting a guest post and a write up for literary magazines. For guest blogging, you send a pitch then write the article. For literary magazines, you write the article then send it. The book also talked about getting a book published via an agent.

### Others

- Watched the last two episodes of Sex Education's season 1. It was good.

## Field notes

[[2022-05-24 seeds]]