# 2022-06-20

## I am grateful for:
1. Being ok despite my current water problem.
2. Lea's kind and thought-provoking comments about Lilim yesterday.
3. The kind security guard at LARC a while ago, and all the other kind people doing their job.

## Affirmation

"I am patient and perseverant."

## Review
### Studies

I wrote the following notes:
- [[Law of diminishing returns]]
- [[Everything boils down to the mind]]

I also processed the following notes:
- [[Apply benchmarking and emphasizing-excluding to know how to learn effectively]]
- [[Use the law of diminishing returns and the 10 percent rule to approximate how long a metalearning project should be]]

### Writing

I journaled about my thoughts on Lea's feedback on Lilim 03(05).

### Photography

I finally started applying the metalearning principles into my photography project. I updated my [[My photography learning roadmap]] by articulating my major and minor objectives. I then decided that it is an intrinsic project. I approximated the total learning and metalearning time.

The fun part was listing down the concepts, facts and procedures, then marking the bottlenecks. I combined my notes from the Harvard syllabus with the outline of the Udemy course.

Doing this made me realize even more how much I don't know about photography. I am almost a complete beginner that it might be more helpful for me to use the Udemy comprehensive course to start my learning journey.

My question I guess is, how do you start learning photography? Do you start with learning the technical knowledge or do you start with establishing your vision?

I asked Rom how he approached learning photography. He said he just watched Youtube videos. He suggested to use manual mode instead of the existing modes. He also reaffirmed my observation that photography has technical and artistic sides. He said that its techinical side is limited, while its artistic side is limitlesss.

### Projects

### Others

- Experienced morning Monday rush hour after a very long time.
- I was able to pay for the repair of the water meter and report everything to Ms. Lou Ann. No reaction. I will interpret this as a yes.
- They fixed the meter without me knowing about it.
- I continued watching Peaky Blinders.
- I did a weekly review.

## Field notes