---
title: "2022-12-21"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. Hearing the idea from Diwa that it might be better for me to include some services in my newsletter (?)
2. The good food and fun time with JuWa last night.
3. Being able to hear what Lea needs from me and how I might be able to provide it.

## Affirmation

"I can perform my role for Lea excellently. I can help her free up her energy and time to do the things she wants to do."

## Review

I journaled about what I want to achieve in my new role as coach and obm for Lea.

After reviewing my notes on [[My livelihood system]], I created the following notes:
- [[My ideal passion business]]
- [[private/plan after losing scribendi]]

I also updated several notes related to my life management system and my livelihood project.

I read [The Performance Art of the Walk](https://craigmod.com/ridgeline/150/).

Lea and I continued watching Dash and Lily during lunch.

While having merienda, I continued processing my notes related to my livelihood system.

At 3:30, Lea and I walked to forestry. I interviewed her regarding her current life management system. I continued walking until 7 pm and also looked for a gift for her. It was difficult to find a blouse and I'm not even sure if it is too big or too small for her.

I went home and had dinner while finishing the Tree of Life film. It was very symbolical at the end.

After Lea's workshop, we continued watching Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 1.

Before I slept, I read an email from Proofreading Pal that I will be proceeding to the next step: a timed test.

## [[2022-12-21 seeds]]
