# 2022-01-11

I am grateful for:

1. Diwa and Yvette's invitation and company last night. It was helpful.
2. The wake up call last night while walking. This is starting to be serious. I need to quit coffee again.
3. This day. A new day to work on my projects and myself.

"I can do this."

# Review

## Studies

Processed a note on my thoughts about insurance, i.e., insurance is necessary in a money economy but not if you want to distance yourself from it. Community is a difficult substitute to health insurance. One will be a burden to people. A middleground is to get insurance only for the necessary things and opt not to get unnecessary insurance.

## Projects

### Design and develop Thoreau website

I watched Chris Stayte’s awesome video about why one should use a static website. I learned that javascript was revolutionary because it was able to make static sites more dynamic. Things that were once done in the server could not be done in a user’s device, thus lessening the burden on the server, which causes the slow speed.

I brainstormed pages for the Thoreau site.

I browsed through all the free themes in the Hugo site and picked some that were promising—both for vinceimbat.com and for kaliskisnaulap.com. I played with the Even theme and learned stuff like generating favicon files, fixing the error on submodule/module theme problem.

## Others

I accompanied Yvette to walk her six dogs. We talked about freelancing, the book she was reading on the occult, her opinion on what career I might want to take, her breakup, and web design. I helped her restrain her dogs while three of them were attacking a goat tied at the side of the road.

Had omelet and coffee at Diwa’s garden kubo.

Saw Ome and bougth ivermectin.

Talked to Lea about our plan to get vaccinated.

