---
title: "2022-11-02"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. October. For all its ups and downs.
2. Seeing that Lea can now go beyond living paycheck to paycheck and think of other goals.
3. The walk last night.

## Affirmation

"November will be slow but meaningful."

## Review

Lea and I walked to Grove to bring her laundry at Ressie's, buy Cari's cat food, and buy some saba for the nilaga and turon. We then walked inside UP and exited at Raymundo gate on our way home.

After meditation, I journaled quickly about what October was for me and what I plan on doing this November. I then wrote the following notes:
- [[Loving the unloveable puts you at odds with those who hate the unloveable]]
- [[Distancing and disassociating does not mean hating]]
- [[sa elbi]]
- [[Kung natuloy sa pancitan - ang huling ala-ala ko kay Rem]]

While having lunch, Lea and I watched Derry Girls.

I finished my personal monthly financial review. I also started doing my monthly review.

In the afternoon, around 4:30 pm, Lea and I started talking about our finances. We decided that it was time for her to buy insurance. By 5 pm, when the rain stopped, Lea and I went to Yolkbun to have a budget date. She treated me dinner.

After our budget date, Lea went home while I did some more walking. I did a quick one at Velasco—Narra—Juliano—Royal Palm.

When I arrived home, I continued my monthly review, after which, we watched Uncorked.

I received an answer from Ms. Leah about my question and along with it the info packet for the retreat.

## [[2022-11-02 seeds]]
