---
title: "2022-03-09"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. Lea agreeing to go on a trip with me on April.
2. Coming to a better understanding of what purpose is.
3. Reducing my weight further.

## Affirmation

"I create my own purpose."

## Review

## Studies

I journaled about the difference of happiness and meaning, purpose as a convergence tool, and purpose as a convenience tool.

Wrote notes on the following:

- Hedonism
- Experience machine
- Nihilism on the meaning in life

I particularly enjoyed writing about the experience machine. The main goal of this thought experiment is to prove that happiness is not the ultimate good. Since human beings choose not to opt in a machine that could produce constant happiness, there are other things that motivate. Newer versions of this thought experiment were constructed to address the problem of status quo bias—i.e., people might not just want to get plugged in the experience machine because they fear their status quo will change.

Since I am partial towards nihilism, I naturally dived into what it could tell me about the meaning or purpose of life. I read Mackie’s book for the first time. His argument is that this thinking that there is one ultimate good is usually relying on the same problematic assumptions that moralists subscribe to—that there are absolute, universal values. No such thing exists. And so one can still choose to direct one’s life towards an ultimate good, but they are making a grave mistake if they assert that this ultimate good is objective and absolute.

While walking, I also realized that I may have committed a serious mistake by equating purpose with meaning. Purpose is simply an answer to the question why you are doing what you are doing. It is the reason behind an action. Meaning is the interpretation of an object, concept, event, or human life. When life is said to be “meaningful” it probably simply means, we can “say more” about it because it means more to people and that is possible because more significant things happened in that life. Both are mind-dependent. Both are contents and creations of the mind, but they are differentiated because they serve different objectives. One way of describing the relationship of the two is that by living with purpose—i.e., being very intentional about your actions and life in general—you create a more meaningful life.

## Projects

## Others

- Finished watching Part 1 of Ozarks Season 4.
- Walked at Pili Drive.

## [[2022-03-09 seeds]]


