# 2022.01.19

I am grateful for:

1. Discovering the path to the campsite. It was a beautiful path.
2. Walking along the illuminated road then seeing the large red moon.
3. The response of people to the KNU site.

"I will take better care of my body today."

# Review

## Studies

I continued reading APOW Chapter 15 The Cynic’s Approach. I was introduced to the cynics. They were called dogs because they acted that way. They harrassed people during gatherings pointing out how ridiculous culture is. Among all the ancient philosophers, they were the ones who really walked. They didn’t have permanent shelters. Their philosophy and life was a complete rejection of civility. They went outside the public-private life dichotomy. The real dichotomy for them was civility and Nature. For them Nature was brusque and therefore that is how they acted and moved. I may not find their lifestyle appealing. But their critique is brave and it has to exist.

While reading, I encountered a quote by Epicurus, which I translated together with a beautiful photograph I took last Monday.

## Projects

### Thoreau website

Bevs engaged with the site by trying out one translation. I taught her how to use the commenting function in Craft.

### Temporary vinceimbat.com

I tried using Brian Gardner’s new theme: Frost. The idea was okay but it was too buggy at the present and documentations are very little and the technology is too robust already that I opted not to use it. Now that I know a little bit of code, I know that the more plugins and functionalities there is in a site, the slower it becomes.

I decided to keep using minimalist pro for now.

### Learn web development

I re-read the most popular article on the question how to learn web development for free. I identified the most important resources to start with and bought Angela Yu’s course.

# Others

I continued watching HIMYM.

I walked at Pili Drive.

