---
title: "2022-11-03"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. Cari's lovable gestures and sounds.
2. The movie uncorked yesterday.
3. Lea's treat at Yolkbun.

## Affirmation

"I will start walking Rem."

## Review

I journaled about how [[Amoralism does not prevent me from feeling strongly against certain behaviors]], why articulating how to live is so important for me, how ethics and poetics coincide, Bugbee as the ethical philosoper in my philosophical family tree, why metaphysical, epistemology, and analytic philosophy is still very important, choices for the projects for the month.

Wrote notes:
- [[poems/apatnapung taon]]
- [[poems/kalahating buwan]]

Lea and I watched the first season finale of Derry Girls.

Finished my monthly review and set goals for November 2022.

I registered for the Ginhawa Breathing Space retreat and reserved me and Lea's spot.

I tried installing Parallels Mac Desktop while reading Living Philosophy.

Lea and I walked at UP towards Forestry then down to Juliano then Freedom Park. She asked me what my biggest lesson was from being a JW and I answered how not to be one or how belief can easily make us forget of our capacity to love. We then visited Ate Nancy to buy salad ingredients and other stuff.

Read Photo Meditations's To Never Lose Hope, Austin Kleon's 30-day challenge, 100 Rabbits Summary of Changes, and discovered the website for [MindOS](https://mindos.in/).

Claire called me to talk to me about some practical concerns regarding Rem's websites.

Lea and I watched episode 6 of Rythm and Flow while having dinner.

While washing the dishes, I finished listening to a [podcast conversation](https://open.spotify.com/episode/0BTyuAFYXcpXvOOnHal3aT?si=QxVmnrg2QvSD383QvL-TVQ) between the Riverside Interfaith Council and the Inland Empire Atheists and Agnostics.

## [[2022-11-03 seeds]]