# 2022.02.11

I am grateful for:

1. The author of the script responding to my question with a video tutorial. That was really kind.
2. Experiencing the life of a coder and realizing how challenging it can be. But perhaps tinkering sessions like what I did yesterday would have been better of I am more knowledgeable and I have some self-control in terms of taking a break etc.
3. Feeling good and relatively ok.

"I know when to stop."

# Review

## Studies

I journaled about my realization from an entire day of tinkering last Thursday and what to do after.

## Projects

### KNU salin update

I retransfered KNU to Cloudflare (pointing the name servers to it) to try Zuolan’s method one last time.

Zuolan was not that fast to reply that I had to write my first question in stack overflow. About time. It was good to experience asking questions when I don’t know the answer to my problems. But getting an answer took days. Because I was impatient, I started looking into the solutions I saw yesterday (i.e., Emanote, Bearblogr, Neuron, Vessel, Obsidian.

Finally, Zuolan replied. I applied his advice to correct my worker script. Turns out, my config url has a bug, the 0 turns to O when pasted. So I had to make sure that the url is correct. The script deployed successfully in the cloudflare development URL. I then faced the problem of rendering the page in salin.kaliskisnaulap.com. Zuolan came to the rescue and told me to simply change the domain name in the script to my desired domain name. This of course worked and I was so happy!

My final problem was that craft Cards don’t come up well. So I had to change the formatting of the page to not use cards.

### Talahardin site

Compiled resources for publishing Talahardin online.

### Migrate vinceimbat.com

Since I already solved the KNU salin update, I moved on to migrating my Wordpress site to Hugo. I started the process by reviewing the best things. I was choosing between Book, Paperesque, and Congo, which was just upgraded to version 2!

I started looking for a Wordpress to Hugo exporter and found one that generated page bundles: [https://github.com/lonekorean/wordpress-export-to-markdown](https://github.com/lonekorean/wordpress-export-to-markdown)

## Others

I invested in BTC for the first time.

I also funded my First Metro Sec account.

I continued watching CM’s stream on building the Ise-ji site.

