# 2022-04-06

I am grateful for:

1. The rain yesterday. It made the night colder - a relief during this summer.
2. Learning about the good news from Mama - that her eyesight is better already.
3. My current relationship with Lea.

"I am wise."

# Review

## Studies

I journaled about how photography facilitates appreciation of beauty and continued freshness of appreciation. I also drew a graph of individual artifacts I am producing and where they are being used for larger and more public artifacts. That said, I still have to determine where they are all going. Books? The website?

I continued reading Transcend. I am now in Appendix I. I read about the first four principles for becoming a whole person. The first principle is about accepting your whole self and not just your best self. According to studies, we have a bias towards the best version of ourselves. We feel authentic when we are showing goodness. But this is an incomplete view of oneself. We need to accept our frailties and own them. The second principle, learn to trust your self-actualizing tendency, says that we lost our trust to our own feelings and motivations during childhood when adults in our lives continued to reject what we thought then was important to us. It also raised the importance of autonomy. When you give people autonomy, they will always pursue growth than security.

The third principle, become aware of your inner conflicts, raises the fact that we contain multitudes, and drives that sometimes contradict each other. After being aware of these, the goal is to briddle everything so they can coexist harmoniously.

The final principle I read, look out for lopsided development, illuminated that we have three neurotic tendencies: going towards people, rebelling against people, and avoiding people. We can feel like we are developing just by following what feels easy among the three, but this is wrong. We need flexibility if we want to self-actualize.

## Projects

### iCloud Photos

I am done with both 2021 and 2022. I shall now process 2020.

## Others

Continued watching Narcos.

I processed my income and invested some to bitcoin and FMETF.

Walked around Lopez to look for shorts. Bought one at the boutique at Grove.