# 2022-06-21

## I am grateful for:
1. My water meter being finally repaired and feeling normal again.
2. The lessons I learned when there was no water: relying on the support of others, valuing water, feeling like a refugee.
3. The opportunity to practice my writing and photography.

## Affirmation

"I am dedicated to my craft."

## Review
### Studies

### Writing

I tried imitating Ben Hewitt's vignette. I read his latest work, "It Does Feel Good" (https://benhewitt.net/) then wrote a walk vignette in my journal using photos I've taken and some field notes on a walk I recently took at UP.

In the afternoon, I took CM's [[Kissa by Kissa — Mod]] out with me and stayed at Homespun by myself for around 2 hours or so. I read more than half of it. I learned a lot about walking, books, and photography, things I could use in my own work.

### Photography

I started improving [[My photography learning roadmap]], by separating [[Photography's knowledge structure]] away from roadmap and creating a new subheading "My personal curriculum." I compared Udemy's Photography Masterclass with the TOC of Read This If You Want to Take Great Photographs by Henry Carroll and decided on a few flow.

I realized, and following Rom's advice, that owning a proper camera (not the one on my phone) will be essential in this learning process, so I started watching Udemy's lessons on [[How to choose a camera]]. I find the format of their lessons really good. A lot of essential lessons in small chunks and real advice from real photographers. Going through this course and the book might be a good way to do this. It ensures flow and filters out bad information distributed in blogs, etc.

### Walking

5:30-7:00 pm
Carabao Park-Royal Palm Ave-Juliano-Lantican-Makiling-Pancho-Freedom Park

### Projects

**New Laptop**

The Macbook Air M1 2020 arrived and I unboxed and set it up.

### Others

- Continued watching Peaky Blinders.

## Field notes