# 2022.01.07

I am grateful for:

1. Finding Mike's post on the marketplace.
2. The not so strict rules of the newest quarantine measures.
3. My inspiring conversation with Lea who shared to me Saraiah's insights.

"I am ready to take on the website."

# Review

## Studies

I journaled about my current feelings and how to combine reason and emotion in pursuing goals.

I processed two diary entries and wrote notes about how reason and emotion are both essential in pursuing goals, how anarchy is subjective, why anything good ceases to be so when forced, and why the mind is the last frontier of freedom.

I translated [[Bigyan mo ako ng katotohanan]] and shared it via IG and FB.

## Projects

### Annual Review

When I was about to write the public version of my annual review, I realized that the artifacts I created from conducting the annual review routine did not make writing the article easy. Because of this observation, I went back to thinking about the structure of my annual review. I should always expect this to happen moving forward. Whenever I use one of my tools, I see something wrong with it and optimize it. This feedback while using one’s tools is so underrated. You cannot optimize until you have started. I wrote about the purpose of reviews and how I can go about writing the annual review article.

Moving forwad, this is the process I will follow when writing the article:

1. Work on reviewing one area at a time.
2. Identify the original big goals I set at the beginning of the previous year and review them.
3. Identify goals that arose along the way last year and review them.
4. Share big goals for the coming year.

The annual review process must be optimized to help me write this annual review article easier. The only true purpose of any kind of review is to compare the end state with the original intention, and to use that evaluation to set new intentions. The questions in the past and coming year part are nice to have and fun to answer but I question their significance in my personal process. If they are useful, they must show usefulness as reference in the next steps in the annual review.

Given all these new realization, I started to write a draft of my 2021 Annual Review article.

## Others

I continued watching HIMYM.

I walked at UP and saw that everything was actually fine. There is not much restrictions.

