# 2022.01.29

I am grateful for:

1. Thich Nhat Hanh's life and work. As I start my immersion into the wise minds and lumineers in history, he will be in my mind.
2. Ome's kind words: he said he admires my courage walking in the night.
3. The movie last night. It was good. Probably 4/5 just because the subject was something I don't totally relate with.

"I am compassionate."

# Review

## Studies

I journaled a long entry on the relationship of understanding, compassion, and happiness, which continues to convince me that the purpose of inner work is to prepare us for outer work, which is the best form of inner work. I dove deeper on the nature of understanding, which starts the process.

I continued reading APOW Chapter 19 on Strolls. I realized that what I am doing sometimes is a stroll. I am more of a Kant. I did use my walks to generate thoughts, which was especially true when I was in Pangasinan. But sometimes, I am enjoying using walks as purely breaks from a day of studying. This is especially true while I am in the middle of work. I am starting to feel like this is the flavor of walking that suits me best.

I processed a journal entry on the best approach to negative emotions—do not discard them but do not let them control you; listen to what they’re saying about what you value.

## Projects

## Others

Lea and I bought Kumpares’ Tapang Baka for lunch and dinner. It was so-so.

We played Coup.

Lea, Jacob, Jhosa, and I played Betrayal at House on the Hill.

We played One Night from 7 pm to 3 am. Maygad!

