# 2022.01.21

I am grateful for:

1. My walk with Ju yesterday. I was able to know more about the buildings around Pili Drive.
2. Lea's company.
3. Ate Nancy and how fun it is to buy while there.

"I will learn development today."

# Review

## Studies

I continued reading APOW Chapter 17 on Nerval.

## Projects

### Learn web development

I learned how websites work. Browsers interpret three kinds of web files: HTML, CSS, and JS. HTML is responsible for creating structures. CSS is for styling. JS is for giving your website a behavior. I learned that the browser creates local docs of a webpage, and that is why you can change the elements of the page within the browser until you refresh it.

HTML and all other markup languages originated from the markup symbols that proofreaders used to edit manuscripts. The symbols defined how elements in the text shoud appear. This is the same things that HTML does. We can build a website purely out of HTML but not purely out of CSS or JS.

An HTML document is made up of tags and the content they define. There are different kinds of tags:

- Opening tag
- Closing tag
- Self-closing tag
- Comment tag

It is important to always refer to the HTML documentation in W3 schools, MDN, or devdocs.io to familiarize yourself with how HTML elements behave.

I learned about the atom editor produced by the same developers behind Github.

### iPhone

I tried selling the iPhone in the marketplace but it can’t be activated.

## Others

Continued watching HIMYM.

Lea and I walked at Pili Drive.

Lea and I watched Exam.

