---
title: "2022-12-27"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. This meditation practice.
2. This life given to me today.
3. Having an LMS that I have trusted since 2020 and that I have continued to improve and develop.

## Affirmation

"I am patient"

## Review

I created notes for the following:
- [[building a minimum viable lms program]]
- [[lms self-assessment test]]

On my journal, I reflected on how my mornings have been recently slipping away from me and how I can correct this by modifying my daily routine and, specifically, improving my sleep.

To create a well-designed daily routine, I researched the ideal hours I need to sleep. I found this helpful [sleep calculator](https://www.healthline.com/health/sleep/sleep-calculator#sleep-calculator) which told me that I need to add an extra hour on top of the number of hours I want to sleep for getting myself to sleep. Through this calculator, I reaffirmed my goal to wake up by 7 am every day (similar to Andy Matuschak). This implies that I should be in bed by 11:15 pm trying to sleep.

To design my day, I checked [Andy's daily routine](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/My_daily_routine). I notice that he changed this note a bit.

Lea and I had lunch on my "new" room.

After lunch, I moved my things out of my old room and into this new one.

After this, I continued designing Lea's program, creating action steps for the first GTD Move.

In the evening, we went to Bevs' and Embi's new home. We ate pizza, played Ticket to Ride, and talked about suicide, candle-making, and the recent plagiarism cases.
