---
title: "2022-12-22"
---
## I am grateful for:

1. Receiving an email from Proofreading Pal that I will move to the timed test. I have Lea as client, then the shownotes, then Cinque, and now this. This makes me feel abundant.
2. The instructive experience of buying a blouse for Lea. It was difficult but revealing of how much I know her.
3. This lesson that came just now: I am not good with romantic gestures. But this is a narrative I need to destroy.

## Affirmation

"There are things we only learn by being in tight situations."

## Review

In my journal, I wrote about the film The Tree of Life and the challenges of writing in dim light. I also wrote an outline of the plan for funding and managing Rem's sites, which I will post at Tuloy-Daloy.

I read some reviews on Proofreading Pal and discovered Reedsy and PenguinFreelancers.

I read [Roden 072](https://craigmod.com/roden/072/).

Lea and I continued watching Dash and Lily over lunch.

I applied for the KEME giveaway scholarship.

After lunch, I wrote the post for Tuloy-Daloy digitally and shared it on the group.

While having merienda, I started working on SEP 245. I learned how to use TempMail.

I also watched this [YouTube video on mindfulness during the holiday season](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fNFFQhXf1wM).

Before walking, I re-read my TLW post Re-walking Rem Tanauan.

In the evening, I walked at Viado and Juliano.

Upon arrival, I ate my lomi while watching Katla. After dinner, I finished writing the shownotes for SEP 245.

I played ML and won another Mythic placement game.

## [[2022-12-22 seeds]]
