# 2022.02.12

I am grateful for:

1. Finally implementing Zuolan's solution. Now I can move on to building my website in Hugo.
2. More control over my emotions.
3. Meagan coming home this March.

"I will be able to finish building the site today."

# Review

## Studies

I journaled about a plan to start migrating my Wordpress content to Hugo.

## Projects

### Migrate vinceimbat.com

I decided to use the new Congo theme for vinceimbat.com. So I started installing and configuring it. It has some really cool features including table of contents, multi-language support, scroll up, toggle between night and day mode, etc.

The only problem is that I cannot seem to use the static folder as well as the assets. Because of this problem, I was introduced to the page bundle functionality in Hugo, which according to sources, is the best way to organize content in Hugo. I learned about the difference between leaf and branch bundles. _index.md is used for branch bundles, which are bundles that can contain more leaf and branch bundles. index.md is used for leaf bundles, which can no longer contain anymore bundles. I also learned how to properly use permalinks to match how I want to organize my content within hugo and in the site. I understood that I can use the internal directory organization of hugo for my own organizational purposes without it necessarily reflected in the permalinks of the site.

I started migrating my pages and posts and seeing how they look at Congo.

While migrating, I also seriously considered using 11ty instead but realized that I will have to go through another learning curve. I decided to defer and continue using hugo instead.

## Others

We watched The Wedding Ringer.

