# 2022.01.10

I am grateful for:

1. Surviving yesterday's stay here at the house by myself.
2. Feeling a little bit more driven to do my work.
3. The article by the moderate-minded writer. Very helpful and thought-provoking.

"I am able to be by myself. I thrive in it. I am able to be present and process negative emotions."

# Reviews

## Studies

## Projects

### Design vinceimbat.com

Watched Flux’s Content Strategy and Information Architecture workshop. The workshop had two subjects: Content strategy and structuring that content. Here are the steps in creating a content strategy:

1. Identify the goals of the site.
2. Brainstorm the kind of content you can use in a site.
3. Arrange those content into groups.
4. Give a title to these groups, these will be pages.

The workshop also has specific advice about each element of the website: homepage, hero section, navigation, footer. The workshop also introduced the different kinds of content structure:

1. Single page
2. Flat
3. Pages within a page
4. Pages within a page but could navigate between pages without going back to the homepage.

### Covid 19 vaccine

I wrote a possible comprimise I could take regarding the vaccine, which involves using ivermectin to counteract the negative effects. I also checked the control group site and got myself a digital ID. I also downloaded the RA and EO on my phone just in case I need them.

## Others

Cooked chopseuy.

Continued watching HIMYM.

Walked at UP (Ela-Pili-Roxas-Viado-Pancho-Lantican-Narra-Camia).

Sat down in the middle of Diwa’s garden smelling the fragrance of four o’clocks while reading the history of the mRNA vaccine.

Helped Diwa prepare food and saw her cats.

Bonded with Yvette and Diwa over pasta, salad, ice cream, and beans. Met Yvette’s dogs. I explained zettelkasten to both of them. I learned more about Diwa’s process and system and her struggles, which was eye-opening to me.

