---
title: "2022-12-01"
---
## I am grateful for:

1. November, for the tough lessons I learned and I keep on learning.
2. The opportunity to see Tita Cora and Rem's family today.
3. The new washing machine we were able to afford.

## Affirmation

"Things will be okay."

## Review

When I woke up, which was late, I meditated with Lea, then played an ML game to wake up. Then, I prepared to go to Rem's house to attend his 40 days. I arrived around 11:30 am, and people were already having lunch. Zee was there with her partner Jo.

I talked with Alvin, Tita Cora, Cecille, Pearl, Zee, Jo, and Jan. Everyone was doing fine despite still struggling with going back to reality after the wake was over.

Alvin and I talked about ML. Tita Cora and I talked about her health conditions then we browsed the album she made for Rem's photos. Pearl and I talked about our grieving process. She said she liked what I said in the eulogy about Rem's insecurities and shadows. Zee and I talked about the wake and her work. Cecille shared about her health and challenges at work. Jan and I talked lengthily about her dreams and alleged paRemdam. Then I shared about how Rem's death helped me clarify what I like to do which is really a life focused on creativity and spirituality. She shared about how using a vision board could help us see what has already happened in our mind, which is already done even if it hasn't manifested yet.

We had merienda then left by 4:30 pm. Before leaving, I asked Tita Cora if she would agree to me interviewing her and writing a biography of Rem. She said, where will you use it? I sensed a hesitance and fear. I should give them more time.

Tonton agreed to drop me somewhere near SM. I rode the jeep home to LB and ate ensaymada and lumpiang gulay before going home. At home, I had dinner while watching The Crown. Then I played ML. After Lea's live, we watched HP and the Chamber of Secrets.
