---
title: "2022-12-05"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. This new feedback I received after taking the test.
2. Reading that book before I start looking for work. It really is helping me reframe situations and not feel too bad about them.
3. Just being alive and having to face all these challenges that make me grow into someone, into who I really am.

## Affirmation

"Grow into who I really am."

## Review

Immediately after waking up, I took the written test for Scribbr. I got 57/100, which meant I wouldn't continue to the next round.

After taking the test, I went upstairs to meditate and journal about the things I learned from the results.

After journaling, I went back to Overlap and Creating a Life Worth Living to read the authors' ideas about executing the [[thoughts/day job model]].

After lunch, I watched Heartstopper.

After lunch I prepared to go to Binmaley. At Dagupan, I walked at Downtown, had some merienda (tusok-tusok and bibingka with cheese and salted egg), walked at Food Strip and plaza then met Migs at the church.

We drove together to Binmaley, we rested a bit, then we went to Baywalk at a restaurant called Bali Bali where we ordered and ate while listening to live music. I appreciated the customized tumblers for the milk shakes we ordered.

Back at home, Tito Bobby, Migs, and I talked about Philippine politics, healthcare center, COVID experiences in the US, and Patch Magtanong while drinking bugnay wine. From our conversations, I learned that 25% of seafarers in the world are Filipinos and 4% of nurses in the US are Filipinos.