---
title: "2022-11-26"
---
## I am grateful for:

1. This walk I had with Lea.
2. Doing the exercise with Lea and getting some feedback.
3. Tito Bobby's surprise.

## Affirmation

"I have a lot of ideas to work on."

## Review

Right after waking up, Lea and I walked towards forestry. Along the way, we had a conversation about her being defensive. We continued the conversation for a bit when we arrived at the sheds, but then we shifted gears and did the Odyssey Plans. Lea presented her three plans: as a copywriter, a dentist, and a hippie resort owner. I presented two of mine: a writer of many genres then a self-directed learning coach and facilitator.

We went back home for lunch. Lea just heated the pasta sauce, cooked new pasta, and we ate while watching Ancient Apocalypse.

After eating, we prepared to leave to Calamba. While in transit, I read some emails including Craig Mod's latest Nightingalingale newsletter. The newsletter talked about scale and creativity. I shared his words on FB. At OJ's Cafe, I had spicy coffee and pancakes. I also tasted some of Lea's dirty fries. I continued reading DYL while eating. After eating, we transferred to a table outdoors where we started ideating about her salespage for Sariah. I took a short nap then we made our way to SM.

At SM, I bought a new pair of hiking sandals while Lea bought a new laptop charger. After this, we went to Tonton's sisig to have dinner. We tried going home but saw that the line in both SM and Central terminals were long so we decided to stay at Jollibee for a while until around 9:30. We ate ube mango pie while we read. I also played some games.

We were able to ride a San Pablo jeep. While in transit, I finished reading the DYL chapter about job searching and started the next chapter about designing a dream job. The jeep dropped us at junction. Then we walked home. I shared to Lea what I read about job searching and how the right way to do it according to the book affirms what she has already been doing in her freelancing life.
