# 2022-07-24

## I am grateful for:
1. The opportunity to be alone, to listen to myself, my thoughts, my feelings.
2. Encountering Wittgenstein.
3. Being alive.

## Affirmation

"I can write lyrical philosophy."

## Review
### Philosophy etc.

In my journal, I expressed my excitement for possibly finding a brand of philosophy that I am most attracted with (even if I may not be very good at it for now). I thought: [[How can I write lyrical philosophy?]]

I started reading the last chapter of Wittgenstein's Artillery.

While processing my notes on Epstein's article on lyrical philosophy, especifically [[Feelings, when involved with universals, can also be philosophical]], I came to the question, what is the difference between emotion and feeling? This lead me to a clarification of these concepts:
- [[Emotional experiences]]
- [[Emotions]]
- [[Feelings]]

The metaphor of the tree in this video really helped: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ynHioCxAMEI

I started defining [[thoughts/lyrical philosophy]].

I also wrote [[How to deal with anger]] and [[My daily walking routine]].

### Writing

I wrote my statement of intent to join Alexander Chee's workshop.

### Photography

I continued reading the Advanced User Guide for my camera.

I finished watching: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xUGeCVplazQ

### Walking

In my journal, I wrote about what is most important in me during walks ([[Connection with space, object, or scene is the most important part of my walk]]), and how I might be better of doing short philosophical walks in a specific place for an extended period of time rather than long walks.

### Projects

### Others

---
## Field notes

[[2022-07-24 seeds]]