# 2022.02.04

I am grateful for:

1. My deepening meditation practice. I can feel that I am starting to get more focused and I am wanting a longer practice session.
2. Everything that I have done, learned, and accomplished in this humble life of mine.
3. Getting more familiar with HTML.

"I know what I want. I am already at the point where I am going after it."

# Review

## Studies

I journaled about the goals and practices under each category of action in my life work.

I wrote a note containing research questions I could answer in my How to live project.

I continued reading Thay’s biography, particularly his friendship with Dr. King and his attempt to save refugees from Vietnam. I also discovered a documentary about Thay, and I downloaded it to watch later.

I also read about the Order of Interbeing including its 14 precepts. The precepts really arose from Thay’s experience. He saw how ideologies could lead to war, and his distaste of taking sides or being attached to beliefs are explicit in the precepts. I discovered that there is a sangha of the order here in the Philippines. One in Manila and another in Baguio.

## Projects

### Learn web development

I continued to learn HTML, now the intermediate skills in it. I learned how to use tables. I learned that we build tables in html by building rows <tr> and entering data in cells <td>, which create the columns. I learned that we can use tables to customize the layout of our sites even if this is no longer advisable as it is deprecated. I learned about nested tables too and how they are complicated.

## Others

I applied for a free year at Craig Mod’s membeship and got accepted yey!

I had a very meditative walk at Jamboree road yesterday.

