---
title: "2022-12-12"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. My stay here at Cablong which ends tomorrow morning. I was able to apply at three agencies, get to know the night sky more, bond with family, and meet the land that I could possibly live in.
2. Finishing the latest TLW last night. Over all, I like it. A synthesis of what I learned from the previous week.
3. Seeing that Lea is inspired.

## Affirmation

"I am surrounded by inspirations. I am on my way to be like them."

## Review

I journaled about the Maria Kafra bird that perched on the thick cable wire seen from the balcony. I then listed some book projects I could start. I wrote specifically about my desire to learn more about Pangasinan.

I published [[tlw/009]] on my website.

I then created the following notes:
- [[bearable only through love]]
- [[my editing process]]
- [[without any electric light — winterson]]
- [[sprint down hill — clear]]
- [[lessons from losing scribendi]]

I read [TTT Day 7: Care and Espresso](https://www.instapaper.com/read/1531400879).

I finished my translations and edits of [[private/foreword translation sandy]] and sent them to Mini. While translating, I discovered that the Tagalog word "pabaon" does not have an equivalent in English. The closest is accoutrement but it is not even close to the meaning of pabaon.

I watched the first episode of Katla on the new big TV.

I did a weekly review in the afternoon.

In the evening, before I went out to walk, Papa and Tito Bobby suddenly arrived. They had some tupig. Tito Bobby then asked if we could watch Quezon's Game, which we did. It was an excellent film, which was very educational. My respect to Quezon grew.

After watching, I had dinner. Then, I did a 30-minute walk at Garcia Street and at Maticmatic-Maronong Road, where I watched the night sky for the last time while I was here.

## [[2022-12-12 seeds]]
