---
title: "2022-11-20"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. 

## Affirmation

## Review

I woke up around 6:30 am and immediately started preparing to go out. I walked up to the cafe. I started taking photos of the surroundings around the hermitage cottage. Then I walked the trail up. The left trail first. There were small bamboos along the way. Some places had stairs made of mud and wood. I reached the top and saw a better view of Hogar and its neighboring resorts. I also saw the Hogar cafe. It began raining and it was clear to me that I won't be able to journal nor meditate while outdoors. So I made my way down using the right trail. I took a short detour to see what is at the end of the okra garden. What I saw was the fence that separates Hogar from a neighboring resort. On my way down, I saw a little snail, a baby, which was still growing its shell. It was under a large leaf.

When I reached the cottage, I cleaned up. I heard Lea outdoors with a companion. It as Lou Ann and they wanted to see the cottage. I showed them what was inside. Then I left them to try out the trail up by themselves. I went down to catch breakfast.

I used the breakfast to connect with Jan and Jimbie as well as Claire. Claire will be able to make it on the 40th day but is unsure whether she is available for Maui's invititation or the Daop Diwa on Dec. 4.

After breakfast, we started preparing for the hike. Mini led us. The walk towards the entrance of Fresno Agro Forestry and Eco Tourist Campsite, which houses the trail to Mt. Kulis, was a large dirt road with mud. Only cars, particularly those with large wheels could pass by. Not even tricycles or motorcycles could make it with ease. We walked on the sides. Some of us decided not to continue. The adventurous at heart pushed on. We were rewarded with some of the best views in Southern Luzon.

Along the trail to the summit of Mt. Kulis, we saw what they called Noah's ark. But it was more like a large balangay placed on top of a mountain. Jan said the view there was really great. But it was no longer part of the agenda as it would take more hours to get there.

The view at Mt. Kulis was so wonderful. Too wonderful, I almost didn't leave. While there, Cris shared me about his Baybayin script-inspired ikebana. I shouldn't have left the summit, but through persuasion, I decided to join the crew to the spiderweb. Then after the spiderweb, to the heart.

I was already hungry when I reached the heart, but went to try the entire experience and also to support Claire. I took some really good photos of her above.

We made our way back by walking again. The walk back needed the same mindfulness, perhaps more. We reached Hogar around 12:30 pm when we took our lunch. I used my lunch time talking with Reg, who was the head of the deaf studies initiative in UP Diliman.

After lunch, we had a group picture-taking outside, which we needed because some were already leaving early. After the picture-taking, we had a closing program at the Guesthouse where we shared what we were grateful for.

After the program, I went back to the cottag to take a bath and prepare. Lea followed. Then we joined the van that will take us back to Cubao. In transit, I shared zettelkasten to Cris.

We had dinner at Buddy's, the first time since our first date ever in 2019. Then we rode the bus to Calamba. While in transit, I started reading the essays of Imaoka on free religion.

I learned that his idea of free religion is seeing religion in everything. Relgion is simply making the human being whole. This is the same goal of education. But it also happens in the secular areas of politics and economics. I read about his history of religious and spiritual training, which led him to his position of being a free religionist. I learned about his precepts:
1. I believe in myself.
2. I believe in other people.
3. I believe in cooperative society.
4. I believe in a universal cooperative society.
5. I believe in the church.
I notice the concentric nature of his beliefs, similar to my recent meditations on the well and walking.

I also read an article about the [Unitarian Universalist Church of the Philippines](https://www.uuworld.org/articles/new-leaders-philippines).

From Calamba central terminal, we rode a notoriously slow jeep to LB. We had ice cream while walking home.

Before sleeping I played ML. Lost 1 and won 1 game.

## [[2022-11-20 seeds]]
