---
title: "2022-12-15"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. The feedback to focus on learning copywriting moving forward.
2. Having Lea by my side right now as I traverse this difficult situation where the inner wounded child is all the more vulnerable.
3. Being alive today.

## Affirmation

"I will be a good copywriter."

## Review

In my journal, I handwrote the Virginia Woolf quote which Lea posted on her story. I then reflected on what the recent negative results from my applications are telling me: That I need to play to my strengths and choose what feels easy. This involves focusing on copywriting for now (because I have a sure job), then try applying again as an editor once I have improved myself.

I added the following notes:
- [[poems/mangkok]]
- [[thoughts/poetry merges the wordless with words]]

Lea and I walked the Chewy walk longer than usual. I told her about my decision to focus on copywriting moving forward.

I read the foreword of Bienvenido Lumbera in the Sarswelang Pangasinan book.

I cooked ginisang upo with alamang. While cooking, I listened to an interview with Neville Medhora. He studied copywriting by himself. He thinks copywriting is about information contraction (so he believes in using images and GIFs in copies). He thinks one should only drop out of college to start something big or because something big is already calling for him. He is a serial entrepreneur. He says that a good copy could not save a bad product. He tells his clients directly that their product or offering is bad even if it is difficult.

Lea and I watched the first episode of Dash and Lily while eating lunch.

After lunch, I applied Mapecon termite killer on the termite trails at the kitchen.

I discovered Readwise Reader.

I then worked on the podcast show notes, which I finished. Surprisingly, I enjoyed the work even if I only earned Php 1,200 for about 1.5 hours of work. I also learned how to use Audacity to split an audio file. I also learned how to use Trello.

Lea and I walked at UP. We walked at Ela—Pili—Freedom Park where we saw the night market. A vendor gave us free taste of cinnaron, a combination of cinammon and turon (?) but it doesn't have any banana. It tasted really good.

We then bought some food at Savemore. After arriving at home, Lea prepared dinner while I downloaded Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire. We watched it while having dinner. It is the best HP movie so far (next is Sorcerer's Stone?)

I washed the dishes and prepared to sleep after.