---
title: "2022-11-11"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. Lea
2. Freedom
3. The opportunity to think what I am grateful for.

## Affirmation

"I do not hold into ideology."

## Review

Jay Vee asked advice regarding the contraction of doon. I learned from a Google search that the apostrophe should always go to the last o, which makes sense before the apostrophe has to refer to something, obviously the first o. But some resources also say that dun is often used and is accepted even if it is probably informal.

I journaled about how [[we feel belongingness to people we share metaphysical and epistemological beliefs with]]

I published TLW4 on my website.

I reviewed my journal entries on our first Fruit Salad walk at MBG without Rem and my entry on [[2022-10-27]] about projects for Rem and my process with translating Interbeing Wedding to Daop Diwa.

I then started exploring the website of [[andrew j. brown]]. I first checked a new page he added to his site: Free Religion. It was a page introducing Shinichiro Imaoka, the advocate for free religion in Japan. I downloaded two free books: one his only biography and the other a collection of selected writings on free religion. Then I also read his [biography](https://biography.yourdictionary.com/shinichiro-imaoka).

I then browsed a few more pages like the organization's constitution, etc.

After this, I went to the blog and reviewed the first and third posts. The first post was just introducing the site, but the exchange of comments was highly instructive. It showed me some issues the Unitarian Church is facing, including its organizational structure and how it allows members' voices to be heard. The third post was about the Avignon Manifesto which was written by Brown and others to attempt to clarify the difference of Unitarian Christians and Unitarian Universalists. I learned from the Manifesto that William Ellery Channing (Thoreau's friend) is considered an ancestor of Unitarians.

Lea and I had lunch without watching anything. We just ate maki.

After lunch, I started listening to the audio recording of our first Tuloy-Daloy meeting and writing down a more comprehensive minutes. I continued listening to it while washing dishes and having merienda.

By 5:00 pm, I started walking to Forestry. I passed by a flickering street light. It stopped flickering when I passed. I remembered Rem. I went to Grove to have another snack and buy luncheon meat for the maki.

Lea and I had dinner.

After dinner, Lea washed the dishes while I reconciled our monies.

Then we watched All Quiet in the Western Front.

I played ML before sleeping and I reached Legend for the first time!

## [[2022-11-11 seeds]]
