---
title: "2022-12-09"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. 

## Affirmation

## Review

I don't usually have breakfast, but I ate one today because I will be walking for around 45 minutes from our house at Cablong to the land at Banaoag that Tito Bobby bought and is developing through Papa's assistance.

Before leaving, I tried to bond with the new dog, Moymoy, which Papa bought. He is a shy dog. Then I started walking at Balon Dalan. I saw an old lady asking a little boy to do something. Aya ay upam ya ah? Apuram. The boy started walking. But the old lady ran towards him and pushed him. Apuram. She said again. The boy started running. The boy passed by an adolescent female. She asked her, "Are you doing laundry?" in a tone that was as if he was talking to a child (a child talking to a child). The adolescent female was a PWD. The boy then passed by a group of children, possibly friends, and they started teasing him with words I couldn't understand.

At the Urdaneta–Dagupan Road, I noticed for the first time, scales that seem to measure the water level on the posts at the left road. It says from above to bottom:
- FORCED EVACUATION
- FULL EVACUATION
- PRE-EMPTIVE EVACUATION
- ALERT LEVEL
- ALARM PHASE

Perhaps flooding happens here, which makes me concern about the land at Banaoang, which was very near the river.

My only concern about this scale system is that why would I wait for the water to reach that high before I force people out of the place, when evacuation via land vehicle is difficult and only a chopper or boat (?) can be done.

From afar I peeked at the Presidential Hotel, which does not seem to appear at Google Maps.

On the other side of the road, an abandoned house piqued my interest. I took a picture of it across the road but I wanted to take a closer look so I crossed the street.

The abandoned house was filled with artwork—paintings, not grafittis. The house a work of wonderful art.

Tito Bob called so I continued walking. I took a photo of this abandoned store, with Coca Cola painting. This came from a distand past when advertisers were willing to paint stores. Now they just provide signboards or tarps. No longer the dedication they once showed.

I took photos of signs along the way: a sipsip pozo negro sign and an upside down piso net sign.

When I entered the land at the gate, a family of pabo (turkey) welcomed me. I took some more photos of what was happening inside the land.

While in the land, in between converations with Tito Bob, I exchanged messages with Lisa Lee, who was recruiting translators and editors

Around 1 pm, I went with Papa and Tito Bobby to Michelle's to eat lunch. We had kinigtot and kalderetang kambing. Then we met Mama and Nes at CSI Mangaldan to buy groceries. We had fun.

We then drove Tito Bob home, and so we saw developments in San Jacinto and Sta. Maria.

We drove home directly to Sta. Barbara, and here at home, our visitors were already waiting. It turned out to be an okay night, and I talked with Lea before retiring.
