---
title: "2022-10-05"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. Watching that documentary last night with Lea and really learning from it and feeling that Lea and I are making progress in how we talk and tackle money together.
2. This wonderful morning walk, which I discover is more generative than the afternoon walk (since the students came back).
3. The opportunity to write and read and do the work.

## Affirmation

"I can be totally myself in this newsletter I am writing."

## Review
### Philosophy etc.

I journaled about how I did philosophy as a JW ministerial servant. I also wrote about [[What we didn't experience also make us interesting]] and [[We are incapacitated by our lack of experiences]].

Added the following notes in my forest garden:
- [[Against his or her limitations — Steinberg]]
- [[Be regular and orderly in your life — Flaubert]]
- [[The best way to get approval is to not need it — MacLeod]]
- [[Our failure to become our perceived ideal — OBrien]]
- [[Everything must be said again — Gide]]

### Writing

### Photography

### Walking
- Lea and I had a long walk in the morning to Freedom Park where we also meditated. I discovered that morning walks might be better now given the situation in the afternoons.
- I walked a second time in the afternoon after buying dinner: Ela—Rambutan—Pili—Argañosa—Madamba—Viado—Pancho—Freedom Park—Royal Palm—Carabao Park.

### Projects

[[projects someday/career planning]]
- I transferred my literature notes on Steal Like an Artist from my journal to my forest garden.
- I updated my criteria for mentors and peers.
- I continued exploring "lyric philosophy." I read [Introduction: What is Lyric Philosophy?](https://muse.jhu.edu/article/593935) by Warren Heiti, which talks about [[Jan Zwicky]]'s seminal work Lyric Philosophy. I learned about the interesting design of Zwicky's book, which she seemed to have replicated in at least one of her next books (Wisdom and Metaphor). I also learned that "lyric philosophy" is more of an accepted term with a decent amount of following in the academe compared to Edward Mooney's "lyrical philosophy." Both find inspiration from Wittgenstein though.
- I found a Wikipedia on [philosophical poets](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Philosophical_poets#:~:text=A%20philosophical%20poet%20is%20a,%2C%20psychoanalysis%2C%20and%20critical%20theory.). I thought it is a good resource to check eventually. But I am focusing my efforts on looking for philosophers first.

**Reading inbox**
- I continued filling up my archives with books I read in the past.

### Others
- Watched House of the Dragon s01e04.
- Updated my budget and allocated my salary.
- Watched the first episode of Mo in Netflix.

## [[2022-10-05 seeds]]
