---
title: "2022-12-31"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. Getting through another tough conversation with Lea yesterday.
2. Receiving the email from Cinque about the new overviews.
3. The progress Lea and I have made regarding her LMS.

## Affirmation

"I am capable of finding consistent work that supports me and my art.
"

## Review

To remember the many things that Lea has done to accomodate my preferences and needs, I listed them in my journal.

I processed a diary entry on the [[Indirect interaction theory per Patterson]] and used the Diagrams plugin in Obsidian for the first time to create diagrams within the note.

I read Melchor Orpilla's poem [Makakaayew ak (Pirdona)](https://m.facebook.com/?tbua=1#!/story.php?story_fbid=pfbid0DJmFKn9Yq3n4CChR1mQxGwjcixWpSdMAnBU6ogkMSA1Exgid8gDi4ofABztAZbxNl&id=100000507589465&eav=AfZ9hNqfkmNCXzmR4FzsOpmsP4jgqrodUNvGBsANWF_VlK66Y1xHCWjR60mqEKIWLi0&paipv=0).

While having lunch, Lea and I watched the first episode of the first season of Russian Doll.

While having merienda, I did some reading.
- James Clear's last 3-2-1 newsletter for 2022
- Ben Hewitt's vignette [The Clearest, Coldest Pond](https://benhewitt.net/2022/12/29/the-clearest-coldest-pond/)
- Austin Kleon's newsletter

I created my first Mastodon account via mstdn.social.

I prepared action steps for Lea and I's annual review.

I did my last walk to UPLB at Forestry.

To celebrate New Year's eve, Lea cooked spaghetti, lumpia, and chicken. I bought quezo real ice cream, apple flavored beer, and chips. We had dinner then played Betrayal while we waited for 12 midnight. At 12 midnight, we watched the fireworks at LB.

## [[2022-12-31 seeds]]
