---
title: "2022-11-05"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. Eating some really lovely and delicious vegetarian meals.
2. Hearing kind and compassionate words from friends.
3. Walking with Lea home after a long day.

## Affirmation

"I will do my best to support my friends while maintaining self-preservation."

## Review

When I woke up, I immediately prepared to walk with Claire and the others to Makiling Botanics Garden. Lea decided to finally join. We walked to Arable and waited for Benjie to get ready. JuWa decided not to come, so we all fit in Erma Tidon's car, which brought us to MBG.

We joked around with the person at the booth and the UPF officer who just arrived. We walked towards the Dipterocarps. Claire talked about her plans for the walk and the rationale behind it. The walk towards the Dipterocarps was ascending. We hugged trees and took photos.

We made our way back when we realized it was already 12 and we have another destination to cover: the creek. Benjie and I sometimes get isolated so we talked about everything. We talked about how my jokes almost pissed Rem off because they were borderline bullying and Rem had a history of bullying. We talked about how similarities are a less important factor in the longevity of a relationship compared to emotional affect. Benjie shared that Joji taught him to be better in expressing himself.

We visited a part of the creek just below the eco trail on the dipterocarps. But Claire was intent in looking for the exact spot that she and Rem visited, so we looked for it. We descended a stairs that led to the creek. On the creek, I took off my slippers and walked towards the middle intentionally wetting my feet. Claire plunged right into the water with her sandals on, wetting them along with her pants.

We stayed there for more than 30 minutes. I flowed along with the water's sound and appearance. I sometimes see Claire nodding as if listening to someone speak and agreeing. I can say she was hoping for a pair of dragonflies to appear and fly near her, wanting to capture of a photo of them.

We crossed the creek and walk back to the bridge near the Dipterocarps. Then walked towards the entrance. Benjie and I talked more about love and how Joji changed how he approached relationships.

We started walking down the road, waiting for Erma to pick us up. She did and dropped us at Vraja, where we saw Ome and Rhea as well as Jeff. It rained so we stayed inside talking more, now about Candent and Benjie and other stuff.

We walked towards UP main gate around 3 pm and watched Benjie ride the jeep that will take him to Olivarez where he will ride the bus home.

We walked home and slept for more than an hour. When I woke up, I ate my Manggogoyo while reading an issue of Craig Mod's newsletter on his walk at Tokyo.

We had dinner while watching Rhythm and Flow, the episode where the contestants had collabs with established artists. I had dinner while listening to more rap.

## [[2022-11-05 seeds]]