---
title: "2022-11-15"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. Seeing Tantan, Via, Ate Mau and Paeng. And that they are all okay.
2. Bryan's reassuring words that it is okay to feel like I want to build community with people I have relationships with.
3. The realization that community is something so sensitive and complex and that I might need more time to really think about how I want to have it.

## Affirmation

"I am a methodological individualist and anarchist. And that is okay. That is how I do things. That everything starts at the individual level."

## Review

I journaled about how to balance my desire to return to my source and my responsibility to take care of others at this difficult time. I consulted the I Ching and it validated what I already knew and provided me with a great image to explain it to others. 

I wrote the following notes:
- [[poems/naiiyak rin ang sansinukob]]
- [[you cannot save everyone]]

For lunch, I cooked Bangus Escabeche.

In the afternoon, I reinstalled Git in my computer. Turns out, Mac OS Ventura does not yet support Git.

Finally, I opened Rem's sites. I studied the mail function in iching.ph and downloaded all emails there using Thunderbird. After which, I made a suggestion to Claire that it be let go and not renewed. I exported all sites with contents. I discovered that the complete curriculum of Tungko is in the website. I appreciated how much traffic a site builds up and how it could continue to provide value for people years after. For this reason, I have changed my mind and actually would suggest that iching.ph and pathfinder's commune be maintained. For PC, as a static site. For iching.ph as something included with Tungko ng Tula hosting plan.

## [[2022-11-15 seeds]]
