---
title: "2023-02-04"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. The grounding walk I just did this morning. I felt strong and in my own skin.
2. That article I read yesterday about Cheryl Strayed and how she wrote Wild while being in debt. It was an eye-opening account of what it means to have an advance for one's book.
3. Reminiscing the past with my cousins.

## Affirmation

"I am healthy."

## Review

I rode with Migs to Dagupan. He droped me at Perez, but I walked toward Malimgas to buy more cheese donuts. I then rode the jeep to Matic-Matic.

I walked from Matic-Matic to house.

When I arrived, I journaled about some thoughts that came to me about simple living while walking. I also listed my projects for February.

I got hungry so I watched Cobra Kai while having breakfast.

I wrote a new poem: [[poems/diyad perya]] and translated it to Filipino. I then edited a few of out perya photos and shared the poem along with the photos on IG and FB.

I read [25 Ways to Help Someone Who's Been Laid Off](https://read.readwise.io/new/read/01grb8tjqhsmy1ne5kbzqbg7bq).

I also finished my monthly review.

I sent Lea my monthly review process which she is currently adopting.

I had lunch with Mama and Bernice.

I played Underlords.

I started looking for CRM tools I could try out. Dex, Mogul, and TinyBlu looked promising. I also saw a template from Notion but I am considering copying the template in Obsidian using the database plugin.

I walked at Carusocan–Botao Road. While walking, I was debating whether to go to Baguio or not.

I had dinner while watching Cobra Kai.

I played another game of Underlords.

I walked to Garcia Street junction to watch the stars and feel the cool breeze for a few minutes.

When I returned home, I prepared for a call with Lea. In the call, I expressed ideas on finding my own clients. Lea thought my ideas are great and offered to optimize my LinkedIn profile.

## [[2023-02-04 seeds]]
