---
title: "2023-03-12"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. Having complete freedom today to return to my editing and proofreading improvement project.
2. My grounding walk last night.
3. Learning all that stuff about MH370.

## Affirmation

"I live in a world of wonder and awe."

## Review

After journaling, I returned to my editing and proofreading metalearning project. I started by revisiting the ACES website to look for more free or recommended resources. I found a few more leads. I also subscribed to ACES Insights, their newsletter.

After this, I read and took notes on the Editors Canada Career Builder. I wrote my notes at [[Annotated Bibliography of Resources for Editorial Freelancing]]. While reading the guide, I then discovered the Professional Editorial Standards 2016 of Editors Canada.

I did a quick search for any editorial association in the Philippines and found the Copy Editors Association of the Philippines. It would be interesting to research them more.

Next, I started reading Improving your editing efficiency by Hart. It was a short read but full of gems and insights about living as a freelance editor.

I prepared lunch (cauli flower and corned beef).

Lea and I had lunch while watching two episodes of Never Have I Ever.

After watching, I worked a bit to address some requests from Krys.

After this, I started checking out [KOK Edit :: Copyeditors' Knowledge Base](http://kokedit.com/ckb.php). I continued checking this resource while having merienda. Through this website, I learned the benefits of training and certification. Editors Canada has a certification open to anyone worldwide.

I played Underlords, then Lea and I walked to Bevs house for a night with friends.

At Bevs house, we talked about Tungko, Claire, Lea's relationship with her mom, boundary setting, Bevs' business, and artistic workshops and residencies to pursue.

We walked home around 1 am.
