---
title: "2023-04-24"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. This new day. An opportunity to get better at living esp. on my writing.
2. DIY MFA for providing me a framework I can work within to lead my desire to return to serious writing despite my busy life.
3. Being able to clarify my sky level yesterday, perhaps for the first time ever since I started using an LMS.

## Affirmation

"I am a writer."

## Review

In my journal, I started writing a narrative of the first [[thoughts/nasa labas ang ili outline]] walk.

I then processed a couple of diary entries and walked in my digital forest and wrote:
- [[Writing to Free Your Heart Workshop by Rofel Brion]]
- [[Kung paano ako naging artist]]
- [[Sa Casa San Pablo]]
- [[Make 30 - Rubin]]

I continued processing my highlights of [[thoughts/diy mfa by pereira]]

Lea and I watched TKM while having lunch.

In the afternoon, I started my weekly review.

I also started planning my client onboarding process with Ili.

I played Underlords.

Then I walked to Freedom Park then tried to design the second NLAI walk on Wednesday. I decided to do a really slow walk.

Back in Sining Makiling, I saw Maui, Yano, Dos, Tuldok, and the coffee friends from Cavite. I rode with Maui and Yano (with Dos on my lap) until Mint + Snow. We saw Lea and tasted some Cello donuts.

Lea and I went to Mondy night market and bought some more donuts.

Back home, I had dinner while doing some Hugo website stuff. Then Lea and I watched the last episode of TKM.

I played Underlords.

I washed the dishes.

I reconciled our funds.
