---
title: "2023-01-15"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. These trees, large and old and just unshakeable.
2. This peaceful moment.
3. The opportunity to learn poetry and find solace in it while in the middle of all the things I am going through.

## Affirmation

"I am being led to the right direction."

## Review

When we woke up, I invited Lea to walk to Forestry with me. Though reluctant, she agreed. We visited the Sunday Market first to buy snack: donut, lumpia, and palitaw. Then we walked talking about her work life. She mentioned her mom and it immediately destroyed my mood. My meditation was even compromised. But I didn't externalized my annoyance. What I did was proceed to editing the poem [[poems/evening at pili drive]]. It surprised me that after about 30 minutes or so just doing this, I completely forgot my annoyance. I was deeply entrenched in working on the poem that I have forgotten of my suffering—I have forgotten myself.

We walked back home. I prepared lunch: adobong mushroom and fried dilis. We then ate without watching anything.

After lunch, Lea washed the dishes while I returned to finishing my supposedly morning routine.

I created the following notes:
- [[poems/dawal]]
- [[Thoreau took mini retirements]]

I searched for Fizzle.co and it no longer exists.

While having snack, I read the [Tom Phillips obituary](https://www.theguardian.com/artanddesign/2022/nov/29/tom-phillips-obituary). I find his choice of projects interesting. He has this project he called 20 Sites n Years where he photographed 20 sites every year for 20 years. He walked towards these sites from a center; kind of like a Craig Mod TTT walk. His projects take so long to finish, involves a lot of patience. That patience is inspiring.

By 5 pm, Lea and I walked toward Grove to have early dinner at Yolk Bun. Each of us ordered a different version. I ate the one with hungarian sausage. Then I had taro milktea.

I worked on the other poems and sent them to TLDTD. After this, I helped Lea organize her goals masterlist and teach how to manage tasks related to each project. Then we read our 2023 PNVs aloud to each other. It waas a wonderful therapeutic thing to do.

We walked home afterwards, buying ice cream and beer along the way, then watched one of the best Filipino movies I've watched in a long time: Waiting for Sunset or Kung Paano Hinihintay ang Dapithapon.