---
title: "2023-04-02"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. A very, very successful writing workshop yesterday.
2. The kind words I received about my poem Sikmura.
3. The possibility for building a long-term relationship with Sir Rofel.

## Affirmation

"I found home. I shall do my best to make this home better. I shall bring my whole self into its betterment."

## Review

I sent a new edited LBLP photo to Benjie to get the ball rolling once more.

I reached out to a few contacts.

I wrote a post about my day at Casa San Pablo and coupled it with some photos.

While having lunch Lea and I continued watching The Kominsky Method.

After lunch, I started my monthly financial review. I listened to music from Jenn, Jen Rogers (Jao), and even Embi Steady.

While having merienda, I started researching ideas for the walking workshop.

By 4:15 pm, Lea and I started walking to Grove to meet Claire at 7 eleven.

We joined her on the jeep to Lalakay. We got off Makiling Heights Subd. and walked for about 10 minutes to get to Viewpoint Cafe.

There we had pizza and chocolate, then pork binagoongan, seafood sisig, and fish fillet for dinner. After which, we had some alcoholic beverages. My pinacolada was good!

We enjoyed the late afternoon view, the sunset, and the evening lightscape.

We talked about Tungko, our family lives, careers, and grief.

We walked from Junction to Demarces to get Claire home. Then we walked another few kilometers to our home.

Before sleeping, I finalized the title and subtitle of my walking workshop.