---
title: "2023-01-10"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. Being with my friends yesterday and experiencing that camaraderie.
2. Listening to Ka-Icktoy's stories.
3. Riding from San Pablo to LB at that time and reliving my memories with Rem of that last night together.

## Affirmation

"I am capable of designing and building a life of creative freedom."

## Review

I journaled about my day yesterday with friends.

I created the following notes:
- [[poems/ang huli]]
- [[The photographic rules of exposure also apply to life]]
- [[Start with a clean slate - Clear]]
- [[Action is hope - Bradbury]]
- [[I am a compost heap - Patchett]]
- [[And then - Jacobs]]
- [[Where are you going so fast - Murch]]
- [[Human foods poisonous for pets]]
- [[Footgear for walking]]
- [[Commitments should be celebrated]]
- [[poems/wag mong susubukan]]

I read [I am a compost heap](https://austinkleon.com/2021/10/10/i-am-a-compost-heap/) by Austin Kleon.

Lea and I had lunch was we continued watching Russian Doll.

I finished my weekly review while having merienda.

I walked to Forestry. Originally, I wanted to walk at Pancho behind Gina and Kate's house, but an enormous tree was blocking the way. I could've climbed the tree but I didn't want to risk it. So I just skipped that branch of Pancho. On my walk back, I walked behind a young couple, which reminded me of Uwa and Abbey and how I was sitting behind them in their car yesterday. I had to make some distance between me and them. I am glad the dead dog is no longer at Lantican.

At home, while having dinner, I started watching the last episode of Katla.

Lea and I watched Ang Babae at Ang Baril.

Before sleeping, I took Proofreading Pal's Policies and Services Diagnostic Exam.

## [[2023-01-10 seeds]]
