---
title: "2023-02-17"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. My exchanges with Jamie.
2. A good and more relaxed sleep last night.
3. A new opportunity to make progress in my work life.

## Affirmation

"I will gain clarity in my temporary offer and target market today."

## Review

In my diary, I wrote about the sound of the NPR train and how I mistaken it for other sounds in the past. I wrote a draft of a poem for it: [[poems/tunog]]. I also drafted a plan for my [[Freelance Business Setup v1]].

Created the following notes:
- [[Inspiration is not the exclusive privilege of poets or artists - Szymborska]]
- [[quotes/having the most fun - lowe]]
- [[Breathing and acting are similar]]
- [[Release yourself from the desire - Clear]]
- [[How Moby Dick became an ambitious literary achievement]]
- [[Remembering the past is important]]

I finished my much delayed weekly review.

I updated my [[YNAB Vince fund 30k]] and started looking for ways to cut my dependency with icloud.

Lea and I watched Community while having lunch.

I played Underlords.

Claire sent me a lead about a gig looking for a research writer. I watched [Upwork Cover Letter for total BEGINNERS [FULL TEMPLATE!] - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5LUX29sr8Ck) to learn how to write my cover letter correctly.

Lea and I went live where she audited my LinkedIn profile.

I played Underlords.

In the evening, I walked at Halcon, Lopez, Velasco and back.

Lea and I watched Cobra Kai while we had dinner.

I washed the dishes while listening to a podcast episode about how to make freelance income feel more consistent, and some helpful episodes from Grammar Girl.

I played more Underlords after. Then I slept.

## [[2023-02-17 seeds]]
