---
title: "2023-08-09"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. Getting even clearer with my resolve not to attend Claire's event.
2. Seeing my friends and experiencing effortless camaraderie. Remembering that prioritizing my needs is healthy and that I should never feel guilty with my self-care decisions.
3. Cari feeling better after yesterday.

## Affirmation

"I am in deep unapologetic love of myself."

## Review

Walked: Data–Ruby–Halcon (and back)

Read [[thoughts/refusing heaven by jack gilbert|Refusing Heaven by Jack Gilbert]].

Journaled for [[thoughts/the better boundaries workbook|The Better Boundaries Workbook]].

Tried repairing my external hard drive.

Continued studying [[thoughts/billy collins masterclass|Billy Collins Masterclass]].
- Watched his close analysis of [[thoughts/robert frost|Robert Frost]]'s "The Road Not Taken" and other ideas on interpretation and reading poetry.

Lunch + UA

Did more fixes in Candent.ph.
- Copy revisions.
- Mobile responsiveness check.
- Installed anti-spam in contact forms.

Continued writing Krys' paper.
- Added a paragraph on tech industry.
- Added references to the list.

Walked: Data–Ruby–Velasco–Lantican–Makiling–Reyes
Back: Lantican–Cuzner–Lopez–Santos–Onyx–Data

Dinner + [[thoughts/billy collins masterclass|Billy Collins Masterclass]]
- Watched his discussion with Marie Howe on [[thoughts/emily dickinson|Emily Dickinson]] and her poem "I felt a Funeral, in my Brain" and [[william shakespeare]] and his "Sonnet 73."

Continued reading [[thoughts/living philosophy by edward mooney|Living Philosophy by Edward Mooney]].

## [[2023-08-09 seeds]]
