---
title: "2023-03-15"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. 

## Affirmation

## Review

Lea and I travelled to Sta. Rosa, Laguna to visit EK on a jeep that had very little space for the two of us.

Upon arrival, we decided to eat brunch at KFC. I had a maple zinger meal, which I found delicious. But their sundae was not that good.

After brunch, we walked to the EK entrance. Seeing the gate and the wide parking space in front of it brought back my elementary memories.

After adimission (we paid Php 1760, which had a 20% discount for each of us), we went inside and looked for our first ride. Since the line was not that long, we decided to try the Bouncing Boulder. My god, it immediately connected me with emotions I did not know was there! The feeling of falling down from above is particularly terrifying.

After this, we rode the bumpcars, which I really enjoyed. I was really in the flow riding. Too bad the ride was too short.

Next, we rode Up-Up and Away, which also was terrifying in a different flavor.

But what really convinced me I might not be able to do the Space Shuttle was the Roller Skater. That ride made me feel like I might fall out of my seat (as well as Lea). And the emotions were too much, esp. because we had to go around twice.

After this ride, I think we decided to chill a bit and eat some mini fried donuts with cheese powder.

After eating, we continued taking things slow, so I think that was the time we rode the carousel. Children riding knew the carousel was a boring ride and they were faking their fear, shouting.

After carousel, I think, we rode the flying fiesta. Now that was terrifying, and the idea that seemingly thin iron strings and chains were what was holding me above ground added to that fear. After the ride, I was a bit dizzy.

Realizing we needed to rest after feeling dizzied, we went to the theatre rides. The 7D theatre was really fun and perhaps my favorite ride. Multi-dimensional technology could really bring me somewhere and feel that I am there.

After this, we went to Realto and watched Mowgli's Race, which was also fun given that there was water spray and stuff but not as real as the 7D theatre.

After this ride, we decided to take on the wet rides. So, we did the Jungle Log Jam, which was really fun but also really scary. The second fall was really frightening I opted to close my eyes, which lessened the fear but also took away from the experience, obviously. We looked at our photographs and bought a copy for souvenir (coz we looked really dumb on the photo). We rewarded ourselves with some mango drinks.

Then we went to Rio Grande Rapids. But we needed a place to keep our bags in, so Lea rented an electronic locker. The line to the rapids was really long and children were noisy. But the ride itself was really fun. Thrilling but fun and it was nice to spend it with strangers.

After this, we rode the Bump N' Splash, which was also fun.

This was our second to the last ride, so we decided to get changed first. After this, we went to the ferris wheel. The ride started out chill and easy, as Lea branded it. But halfway to the highest point was when things got weird. I was starting to panic. With no harness and the car open and strong winds blowing the car, and no way to control anything, I started to feel afraid. I got through it by breathing, closing my eyes, saying hi to the kind kid on the next car, and finally just appreciating the view. But I was just happy for the ride to finally be over.

After this, Lea rewarded me with corn dog. Then we left and went home.

Back at home, I went back to feed Franco, then I played some Underlords while eating bread and having coffee. I did this before taking a bath and preparing for bed.

In othe news, Claire posted on the exhibit thread and Tuloy-Daloy has started to prepare for Maui's exhibit.