---
title: "2023-02-06"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. This sunny day. This beauty. This simplicity.
2. Reconnecting with Kleinifer. This Clay app is really cool and forces me to get into the habit of connecting with friends.
3. Ideas that came to me yesterday about integrating my life work into one whole.

## Affirmation

"I am on my way toward an integrated life."

## Review

I woke up early and prepared to go to Baguio. Papa agreed to drive me to Mangaldan. We talked a bit during the ride. When I reached Mangaldan, a Dagupan Bus bound to Baguio arrived just after a few minutes.

I enjoyed the view along the way, read some, chatted with friends, and listened to some OPM.

Once I arrived at Baguio, I immediately walked toward Ate Mau's house. Once there, we all prepared to walk to SM to find Cabalen. We had a buffet lunch of Kapampangan and Filipino food.

After eating at Cabalen, we walked at Session Road to go to Burnham. Bobet separated as he was going home earlier and went to the market to buy some food to bring home.

We stopped at Melvin Jones Grand Stand for a while, then we continued walking toward Burnham Park. We decided to try boating. Cams, Paeng, and I tried rowing.

After the ride, we went to Quirante's Rides and Recreation Park where the kids rode the carousel. After riding the carousel, the kids rode the bike with Paeng driving. Meanwhile, Cams, Mau, and I ate strawberry taho while looking at the lake.

After these, Ate Mau and her family decided to go home, while Cams and I walked to North Haven Spa at Casa Vallejo to inquire about their massages.

Ate Mau went to Casa Vallejo with us and joined us for a massage. She did an hour while Cams and I had 2.5 hours of indigenous mountain massage. It was a unique and amazing experience.

We walked home. At home, we had dinner (Binalonan longganisa and tortang talong). Then we drank some wine and ate nuts. Paeng and I brought Cams home by 10:30 am.

I slept not long after this.

## [[2023-02-06 seeds]]
