---
title: "2023-02-13"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. Those beautiful moments at Forestry when I heard the insects and I felt the cold breeze and I watched the streetlight go dim and bright.
2. A relatively good sleep.
3. Being reminded of my need for nature and that the little time I give to it is slowly killing the fire inside me.

## Affirmation

"I shall find myself. I shall find it."

## Review

In my journal, I wrote what is perhaps one of my most negative entries ever. I described my decreased time in Nature and the challenging emotions I am experiencing while looking for a consistent source of income.

I read [The right book at the right time](https://austinkleon.com/2018/10/02/the-right-book-at-the-right-time/) by Austin Kleon.

I continued working on the OVIC updates. I learned quite a lot about the state of immigration in the United States and understanding how to use census data to make conclusions.

Lea and I watched Teenage Bounty Hunters while having lunch. I washed the dishes after.

I continued working on the OVIC updates after lunch. I learned about implicit bias and how it is perpetuated by AI. I also learned how much US teens spend on their phones.

After merienda and playing some Underlords, I walked towards Doña Aurora. The walk there was a retreat from the chaos at Freedom Park.

Back at home, I prepared dinner then watched a beginner's guide to playing Teamfight Tactics and an episode of Cobra Kai.

After this, I finished the last OVIC update on the IPCC then performed a quick re-read of all my updates. I made some more revisions then sent the entire batch to Cinque along with my invoice.

I played more Underlords then prepared for bed.

While on bed, I read Tammy Strobel's latest newsletter, which pointed me to some incredible resources.
