---
title: "2023-02-09"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. The almost two weeks of vacation at North. I was able to see my highschool friends, bond with cousins, and see some school friends at Baguio.
2. 32 years. 32 good years.
3. Lea for taking care of the cats while I was away, cleaning the house, and washing the curtains, rags, and pillows.

## Affirmation

"I am on my way to living an undivided life."

## Review

I journaled about living a life of integrity and how I could manifest that in showing up to my family.

I read [Complexity and Natural Systems](https://stevepatterson.substack.com/p/complexity-and-natural-systems) by Steve Patterson.

I connected with Lovelle Almazar.

While having lunch, I continued watching Cobra Kai.

After lunch, I finished SEP 252.

While having merienda, I started reading three of the OVIC overviews I will be updating.

I had a short siesta, then by 5:30 pm, Lea and I walked to Agapita to have foot and hand spa. We had it a V Lounge Spa.

It was my first time for both and I really enjoyed it, especially the foot spa. I learned that foot spa should be ideally done once a month and that the footwear we use could contribute to the hardening and cracking of the feet. Walking seems to alleviate hardening. I also learned that one of the problems of people who work at salons is that the skins of their hands are thinner and could easily get wounded.

While Lea was having her turn, I started reading Answering the Call of the Wild: Walking with Bugbee and Thoreau by Daniel W. Conway. It was a revealing piece, which traced how Bugbee, despite talking very little about walking, actually continued the Thoreauvian tradition of using walks for self-discovery. I also learned that Inward Morning means the breaking of our habituation to culture and commerce.

After the salon, we went to Cadiz Pizza to have dinner. We ordered fries, buttered chicken, and a 12" Cheesy Hawaiian Bacon Pizza with a thick crust. After dinner, Lea bought me milktea. We then walked back home.

After Lea did some more work chores, we both watched The Square.

## [[2023-02-09 seeds]]
