---
title: "2023-03-05"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. Doc Ortiz! For being the kind, friendly, and humble vet that she is. 
2. Champy's seemingly good recovery. She has eaten a lot in the past few hours than she had in the past two days. I can't explain the level of satisfaction that I now have. This problem has stressed me a lot in the past months and I hope, I really hope this is the end of it.
3. This beautiful chill morning.

## Affirmation

"Being alive is an opportunity to be kind and to love and to feel kindness and love from others."

## Review

I woke up early in the morning to pee but I also heard Champy making noise. When I went downstairs, the garbage can was down and the catfood container was on the floor. She was hungry. So I feed her. She ate quite a lot.

Later in the morning, when I finally woke up, I fed her again and gave her her meds. I was delighted to see that she was not in pain and felt way better than the days before.

Lea and I went to Sunday Market. We bought kesong puti, cheese cakes, and embutido.

Then we walked to JuWa's house to catch the cats and secure them.

After which, we went to Freedom Park to journal and do nothing.

On my journal, I wrote about being in the present moment, not planning and thinking about securing my life, but just being there and living and not doing anything.

Lea and I watched families having picninc, kids flying a kite with their father, dogs being walked by their owners, and dried fallen leaves being blown by the wind as kids run with them. It was a beautiful sight to see. A beautiful morning.

We walked back home.

Back at home, I cooked sarciadong bangus.

Lea and I ate lunch while watching two episodes of Never Have I Ever.

After lunch, Lea washed the dishes while I continued my monthly review. I had a siesta then continued the review while having merienda. The kesong puti was bad!

I played Underlords.

Then, Lea and I walked again to buy ingredients for the mac and cheese she is cooking for her birthday.

Back at home, we had dinner (watermelon, turon, and chips) while watching The Proposal. It was a fun movie.

I washed the dishes while finishing the [On Being episode with Nick Offerman](https://onbeing.org/programs/nick-offerman-working-with-wood-and-the-meaning-of-life/) then played some Underlords before I prepared going to sleep.
