---
title: "2023-01-16"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. The beautiful movie we watched last night. Waiting for Sunset is about kindness and forgiveness and just being human. It's quite possibly the kindest movie I have ever watched. An archetype: 5/5.
2. Successfully finishing sending poems to TLDTD. I was able to return to five poems. I feel good about them but there is also a high possibility that none of them will make it. I am just grateful for the process. Returning to poetry and writing helped me forget about difficult and disturbing thoughts and emotions yesterday. A testament to its magic.
3. The challenge in front of me to create the best livelihood system I could possibly build in the coming weeks.

## Affirmation

"I will be a better writer or editor."

## Review

In my journal, I wrote down a list of my projects and arranged them according to priority. I then extrapolated on [[My livelihood system]].

I created the following notes:
- [[Henry David Thoreau by Walls]]
- [[poems/tiny drops]]
- [[How to succeed in woodworking - Hayward]]
- [[Strategies in proofreading]]

I read [Afro-Cuban Kissa by Kissa — Roden Newsletter Archive](https://craigmod.com/roden/074/).

I then created a [[House and pet care system]], which I shared to Lea.

During lunch, Lea and I watched the first episode of Maid.

I did a Weekly Review, which included going through my audio recordings.

I wrote a review for LJ Nolasco (Jane The Insurer).

In the afternoon, I walked at Velasco–Narra–Juliano–Freedom Park–Pancho–Viado–Madamba–Argañosa–Pili–Aglibut–Dawis–Ela.

I bought food then went home to have dinner while watching Cobra Kai.

After dinner, I reconciled our finances then mopped downstairs.

Before meditating, I listed the names of friends or people I know personally who has written a book and that I could ask for an interview.

Before sleeping, Lea and I had a pillow talk. I opened up about my mental struggles.

## [[2023-01-16 seeds]]
