---
title: "2023-01-08"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. Bonding with Lea last night. I needed to feel that.
2. Champy starting to feel much better. She is now able to eat better and is starting to be lively again.
3. Finishing my research and updates yesterday for the esports piece.

## Affirmation

"This day will be special."

## Review

I journaled about my attraction to the lives of people who live intimately in nature and the experience I had last night at Aglibut. I wrote about the issues of living at Tito Bob's land.

I wrote the note: [[poems/kalabian ed aglibut]]

I read [And then what?](https://austinkleon.com/2022/12/07/and-then-what/).

I then started doing the updates for the Bookbright overview on lead exposure at Flint. This is what I did for the entire morning. I finalized the overviews and sent all three to Cinque.

While having lunch, Lea and I started watching the first episode of the second season of Russian Doll.

After lunch, I reconciled the couple fund to see where we could get money for the date. I also went back to the LMS project and wrote content for some of the remaining steps of the annual review. I had merienda while doing this.

In the afternoon, around 4:30 pm, Lea and I walked towards Freedom Park to check if Vraja is open. Along the walk, while at Ruby St., I initiated a conversation about our finances. I clarified when she would receive her next money and asked whether she could pay me for my LMS or not. She said, she can't for this month.

While in Freedom Park, Juwa and Claire saw us and so we stayed with them catching up for about an hour. After, Lea and I walked for around 30 minutes at Freedom Park—Pili—Rambutan—Ela. We deliberated where to have dinner. We decided to eat at the restaurant where the tasty pizza we had at Bevs was made. We found Cadiz Pizza behind Star and ordered Cheesy Mushroom Pepperoni. While waiting for our order, I started teaching her about areas and other LMS stuff. When the food arrived, we had a wonderful dinner with some comedic experience.

We then walked home. At home, we continued working on the LMS. We were able to clarify her life areas. I also helped her go through her exisiting notes in Notion, deleting what is unnecessary and puting everything else inside an inbox that will be processed incrementally over time. I helped her setup the Reviews page under Areas, where we place notes about her Annual Review.
