---
title: "2023-01-02"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. An interesting start of the new year. The reviews surprised me. They make me want to create a life that is truly committed to something dear to me, helpful to others, and deeply meaningful.
2. All the dancing leaves everywhere. They mean that air is around, which means that life is around and is possible.
3. The longing to have more creative freedom. This longing is driving me to build a livelihood system that allows me more time for my personal project.

## Affirmation

"I will build a livelihood system this year that is both resilient and yet provides me with more time to spend to my deepest passions."

## Review

In my journal, I wrote about following the annual review process sequence I designed for myself. I also wrote about why I might need a therapist.

I created the following notes:
- [[desire]]
- [[On Children - Gibran]]
- [[walking article ideas]]
- [[Kindness]]
- [[beneath and beyond us - heaney]]
- [[integrate lms and walking]]
- [[poems/nu bilang]]
- [[poems/kanlong]]
- [[cablong to banaoang walk]]
- [[you never change things by fighting the existing reality - fuller]]
- [[Gift]]
- [[dead week per fitzgerald]]

I translated On Children by Gibran to Filipino.

I finished reading AK's 100 things that made my year (2022).

I subscribed to Story Club by George Saunders.

I read the latest Summary of Changes from 100R.

I performed a weekly review.

Lea and I watched Russian Doll while having lunch.

Engaged with Alvin Gale Tan about non-parents sharing parenting advice.

I started doing my monthly review.

In the evening, Lea and I walked at Juliano—Viado—Madamba—Argañosa—Pili—Aglibut—Ela. We talked more about shadow selves. We came to the conclusion that it is the eliminatist tendencies that we should strive to let go. This is what creates problems both in mental and physical health.

When we got home, Lea prepared dinner while I started chatting with Megs. We continued chatting while I ate dinner. I introduced Lea to her. Then we talked about her recent process concerning Tita Bebot. Cams joined the call and also shared about her problems with her mom. We talked about utang na loob and how we can stop the cycle. We talked for almost three hours and decided we need to do this at least once a month.