---
title: "2023-01-13"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. Shawn Spann for reaching out to me. Him doing so is a validation that there are people out there who will find the work that I do helpful in some way.
2. Lea's money arriving yesterday. She was able to pay me 20k for the laptop, which funds my expenses for the next month. This buys me some time to slow down and do what I have to do.
3. This day given to me to write my annual review.

## Affirmation

"I am doing important work. I am an archetype for some people. No matter how small my audience is. I am doing work that needs to exist."

## Review

In my journal, I wrote about the niche I seem to be fitting in under the "how should I live" question and how this informs the kind of writing I want to produce. I wrote that I want to focus on things I am sure of and how I need a stable day job to pursue these ideas courageously.

I improved my Firefox experience by adding some addons.

I downloaded Billy Collins' masterclass.

I read [How to go for Long Walks Long Walks Long Walks in the Rain in Kyoto — Ridgeline issue 152](https://craigmod.com/ridgeline/152/).

I continued writing my [[2022 annual review]].

Lea and I had lunch while watching Russian Doll.

I wrote some more annual review.

I also added a few content for Lea's LMS project, specifically on writing routines in the LMS.

I then browsed my Facebook friends list to trim.

By 5:30, I walked at Velasco–Narra–Juliano–Gapud–Kanluran–Doña Aurora–Heliconia–Royal Palm.

Back at home, Lea and I had dinner and dessert while watching Then Came You.

## [[2023-01-13 seeds]]
