---
title: "2023-01-21"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. The movie last night. It was really funny and full of content. I love it.
2. Gaining clarity about the state of my finances and how this dictates what I need to do moving forward.
3. Being alive. This new day to learn more and move forward with life.

## Affirmation

"Everything will be okay."

## Review

I spent my entire morning working on the exercise at Pivot about finding my values. I wrote about my ideal day. I also wrote about Palaui. Eventually, I realized that the activity I did last time was actually quite good and comprehensive in finding values.

Lea and I had lunch while watching Maid.

After lunch, we prepared to go to Dampalit Falls.

- [[My first walk to Dampalit Falls]]

After arriving at Lalakay Elementary School, we entered an eskinita. I asked the first kind-looking vendor on one of the garitas in the eskinita if we were walking towards the falls. I found one such vender, an old lady. She confirmed that we were on the right way. We walked what started to become an elevated narrow road.

Walking there reminded me of La Trinidad. We started seeing cliffs around us. We were in the middle of mountains.

I think, I asked another lady then a girl who was smiling while walking the path towards the falls whether we were on the right path. They both agreed. Oh, I asked another man, an old man. He gave instructions. I think he said, "Diyan sa may barikada"? But I didn't understand it so I asked another younger adult who was walking up the trail that went beyond the trail to Dampalit falls. He pointed at the gate of the compound toward the house.

We returned, paid P20 each for entrance, and started the short trek towards the falls.

Some people were already on the falls, mostly teenagers with other teenager friends. There was a pictorial going on. Lea and I got near, took photos, and videos and just enjoyed watching and listening to the water for about an hour maybe more.

We returned to the highway, rode a jeep back to Lopez, and got of Robinson's to pee. Then walked to the food park where we had takoyaki and creamshake. After eating, we walked toward home. I went out again to feed the cats and the walk some more at UP. At UP I relaxed a little bit then returned home.

We had snack while watching Ride Along.

## [[2023-01-21 seeds]]
