---
title: "2023-04-01"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. The opportunity to hold a walking workshop this month.
2. The opportunity to return to Casa San Pablo and learn from Sir Rofel Brion.
3. Seeing Bevs play live last night.
4. Being able to birth that essay despite telling myself I can't do it.

## Affirmation

"I am home."

## Review

I woke up around 6:30 am.

After preparing, I went straight to Casa San Pablo. I arrived around 20 minutes late.

The workshop started by Ms. An introducing Casa San Pablo and the workshop.

We then introduced ourselves. I met Lynfa, Kristine, Marielle, KM, and Elma.

Then Sir Rofel introduced the rules of the workshop, including silence and no talking.

Ms. An then gave a teisho-like intro to mindfulness and meditation. Then we meditated together. After this, we were given our first exercise: write 10 things you notice around. We went out and did this while having merienda.

After merienda, we went back and listened to Sir Rofel as he gave a lecture on creative writing methods and tools both for prose and poetry. This was gold. Then he gave us instructions for our next exercise: write anything then choose one to present to the group by 5:00 pm.

We then had lunch around 12:30 pm. It was a quiet lunch. I shared a table with Lynfa. I ate my food and wrote a draft for the poem I will share later: [[poems/sikmura]].

After lunch, I went around the Casa San Pablo grounds to edit the poem, write stuff on my journal, rest, try to sleep, read, and just observe and practice mindfulness.

By 4 pm, we were asked to return upstaris to have merienda. We had merienda while waiting for others to finish their pieces.

By 5 pm, we began reading our works, providing feedback to each other, and providing a summary of the experience and stating our intention for the coming days. I was able to practice providing good and encouraging feedback. I also received much-needed words of encouragement from other participants and most importantly from Ms. An and Sir Rofel. They called me a poet, and I am embracing that wholeheartedly.

By 7 pm, we went to the garden where a long table was waiting for us for dinner. Casa San Pablo is my favorite hospitality place in the entire country so far! I talked to Lynfa and Cristine. I also talked to Ms. An. I learned about her interests in pottery and her current project to launch a platform about San Pablo's culture and lifestyle.

We had photos. Before leaving, I went to Sir Rofel and told him, "Wag niyoko pababayaan Sir ha." He told me, "Hindi kita pababayaan. Let's keep in touch." That was enough consolation.

I went home feeling really fulfilled.

I walked from Crossing to the house then went back to feed Franco.

I told everything to Lea before we slept.

## [[2023-04-01 seeds]]
