---
title: "2023-01-03"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. Spending about 3 hours with Megs and Cams last night and listening to their current processes and them also hearing mine. I feel like this is another untapped support system I have.
2. Going back to my December and seeing the things I did and enjoyed. It was not the best way to end the year. But I am deeply grateful for it.
3. This new day I was gifted with. I ought to use it to finish my monthly review and start my annual review. Hopefully, I have some time left to lightly start working on the Bookbright overview updates.

## Affirmation

"I am not a victim of my past and circumstances. I am able to create a life beyond that."

## Review

I accepted Proofreading Pal's invitation to take their test.

In my journal, I reflected on my call with Megs and Cams the last night. I wrote about the transgenerational trauma that we all share and recognized the progress I have made in two years to embrace who I really am and make space for that.

I created the following notes:
- [[action is the basic unit of behavior]]
- [[vocation]]
- [[hugo]]

I read [Pleasure or Reality? The Experience Machine Debate](https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/finding-meaning-in-imperfect-world/201903/pleasure-or-reality-the-experience-machine-debate).

While having lunch, I watched Katla.

I continued my annual review process by writing monthly summaries I missed and aggregating them in my 2022 annual report. To effectively write the monthly summaries, I re-read some Uman issue. Then I finished writing my gratitude list. The exercise revealed to me patterns in my thinking throughout the year. It showed me, for example, the kind of writing I want to explore.

I walked at Viado—Roxas—Mondonedo—Royal Palm and bought dinner then I had dinner while watching another episode of Katla.

I finished writing my gratitue list after.

When Lea arrived, we talked about her day and her conversation with her mom. I shared my conversation with my cousins last night and told her how Papa and I became better toward each other. Then we slept.

## [[2023-01-03 seeds]]