---
title: "2023-01-09"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. This opportunity to be with friends, to feel the presence of community, as we enter the uncertainty of 2023.
2. Moving my LMS project with Lea last night.
3. Riding to San Pablo again bringing memories of my last date with Rem as well as my long walk.

## Affirmation

"I have faith."

## Review

I woke up early to prepare to go to San Pablo. Lea prepared breakfast and we both had one.

In my journal, I wrote briefly a paragraphy that says: [[The different ethical philosophies represent different modes of being]].

I watched news about the coming recession this year.

I left for San Pablo around 9:30 am and I arrived there about 10:30 am. Uwa waited for me at the waiting shed across Barleta Road. I helped him buy buko juice and ube halaya. He bought me buko juice and one ube halaya for Lea. We then crossed the street to Barleta Road and walked toward their house. Their house is No. 100. It was a big gated house. He assisted me walking in as there were several dogs. Inside the house, I greeted his Lolo, who was asking who I was. I sat at their sala to wait marveling at how big the house is and looking at the portraits of Uwa and his brothers and parents.

We left around 11:15 am. At the garage, I met one of Uwa's brothers. The firstborn, I think. We drove to Lipa via Alaminos and I enjoyed the many mountains along the way. I had imaginations of walking these roads one day. I tried to start conversations with the couple about Bullet Dumas, their volunteer work for the families living near the river behind the house. Actually, it is a creek: the Sabang creek, which connects with Sampaloc lake.

At Lipa, we fetched Kuya Iktoy at SM. He had lots of food with him. We ate pandesal and tikoy puto, while talking about the lack of culture in Lipa City compared to other places in the Philippines. Kuya Iktoy mentioned that when people get near Manila, culture begins to fade away. Places far from Manila have better cultural scenes: Paete, Bacolod, Los Baños, and Baguio. He says, Lipa has several artists, even Bienvenido Lumbera was from Lipa, but the city has very poor programs for honoring their artists.

I think he mentioned that Batangas City has good cultural programs. Yano affirmed this somehow by saying that the youth there are invested in folk dances.

We reached Ili Likhaan around 1:15 pm. There is a large industrial complex near it. I saw Alex and Angelica. They started preparing the dishes. I peed at the elegant CR with a bath tub. A few moments later, Claire and Tita Cora arrived with Kuya Mond. We went around the mud house and checked at the progress. Yano came out and began accomodating us.

We had lunch together.

When Maui came out and we were done eating, the program started by Claire saying a few words and facilitating some breathing. We then started doing the urn. Maui gave each of us a ball of clay which we rolled into a long strip. She created a base, then had Tita Cora put on the first strip around the base. Kuya Iktoy followed while singing the first stanza of a song about soil. His singing made Maui and Abbey cry. Abbey followed, then Uwa. Cris followed but they showed that he created a small tungko out of a piece of clay. This later became the handle of the urn. I was next, then Yano, Maui, and lastly, Claire. Claire's strip was too wet so the urn started to fall down buy Maui supported it and corrected it.

We did a second round, but we started telling stories while we did so. Maui posted a question for Tita Cora, which I tried to translate. Tita Cora shared but cried after. Everyone followed and everyone had something to say about their memory with Rem. Uwa shared the story of their date. I shared the story of laughing out loud before we slept in his room. Yano shared how he became a better person by meeting Rem. Maui said he was her idol for facilitation and they would talk until the wee hours. Claire shared how she had to step up and do the things Rem usually does for them two.

We then made the cover of the urn, played with Tuldok and Dos, and had some picture taking. I met Mamyaw and talked with her a bit.

Before leaving, we had dinner. I accidentally drank the water we dipped our hands on! Telling this to Lea made her really laugh.

We said our goodbyes and hugged each other. On our way to Lipa, Kuya Iktoy shared his story of sadness for 5 of 19 years in the US when he was unemployed. He showed me pictures of him demonstrating in front of the US embassy, which blacklisted him. He went undocumented for 19 years before going home in 1998. He said he was an Aquarian like me and so we wanted to fly. I was depressive but he was even more depressive.

When we arrived at his house, we peed and he gave us pieces of fruit. We played a bit with Rako. We bade goodbye.

At San Pablo, Uwa and Abbey dropped me at the waiting station. I said my thanks. Inside the jeep, I relived my last night with Rem and wrote a piece, which resonated with many.

I walked from LB junction to the house while eating three pieces of binangkal.

I went back to Ruby to feed the cats.

I searched for Ka Icktoy in Google and discovered his poetry book, *Quarter Moons and Full*.

I slept after talking with Lea about our days.

## [[2023-01-09 seeds]]