---
title: "2023-03-10"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. The peace. The lessening of uncharacteristically negative energies in my life.
2. The positive energies that have stayed: Benjie, Bevs, Embi, comes to mind.
3. Being friends with people like Maui. Wonderful exemplars of kindness and positivity and wonder.

## Affirmation

"I am in the right direction. I am walking this long walk well and correctly."

## Review

I continued writing the research paper, specifically the section on intersectionality theory and theoretical framework.

I walked with Lea in the morning, but she went out to have her solo date.

I had lunch by myself while watching Cobra Kai.

I continued working in the afternoon and playing some Underlords.

In the evening, Lea and I walked to Forestry while talking about how we can incorporate spirituality or the art of living in our activities as a couple. We defined what we mean by it. For me, it means thinking about my relationship with myself, others, and the universe. While Lea feels a stronger pull to focus on her relationship with herself while still being curious about her relationship with others and the universe.

We agreed to meditate, journal, and hold retreats together. One thing I am excited to try with her is reading and reflecting on texts.

After our walk, we went to Crispy Nok to try out their wings. It was superb!

We walked back home where I continued working on the research paper and finishing Chapter 2 before playing some Underlords and going to sleep.
