---
title: "2023-01-25"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. The realization that if I want to make money as fast as possible, I need to lean towards where I am truly good at: writing, specifically, academic writing.
2. The practices that keep me grounded at this difficult time: meditation, walking, sleep, and rest.
3. Lea agreeing to bring Champy to the vet later.

## Affirmation

"I am better today than yesterday. I will look for the best places to write academic papers and get right to work."

## Review

In my journal, I wrote about the insight I had after listening to the Fizzle episode on MVI. I realized I needed to setup a consistent source of income ASAP to feel better and begin working on higher-level goals.

I created the note [[Gift experience]].

I read [Walking TOKYO, New Print, More Drums — Roden Newsletter Archive](https://craigmod.com/roden/076/).

I tried applying at Iyuno but decided to discontinue after realizing I need to learn a new skill. I looked for some freelance writing gigs at Indeed.ph.

Lea and I continued watching Community while having lunch.

After lunch, while Lea brought Champy to the vet, I activated a new project: [[Freelance Academic Writing Job]]. I look for academic writing platforms and vetoed them through Glassdoor. I discovered that Writers Bay seems to be the best place to apply for a spot. So I started applying.

In the evening, I walked at Viado–Madamba–Vet Med–Pili–Aglibut–Dawis–Ela.

I bought a few groceries then went home to prepare and have dinner. I watched Cobra Kai while having dinner.

After dinner, I continued my Writers Bay application by writing on the prompt for 15 minutes.

I then wrote and sent a message to Doc Maying asking for discount on her home service fee.

## [[2023-01-25 seeds]]