---
title: "2023-01-17"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. My conversation with Lea last night. She told me one day I need to make peace with what happened and forgive myself.
2. Receiving email from Cinque. It looks like I will get paid this month: another 10k to be added to my runway. Then he mentioned 10-12 overviews upcoming. That's about 45k.
3. A newly vacuumed and mopped house.

## Affirmation

"I will eventually find clarity about the work I want to do."

## Review

In my journal, I wrote about what to do next in my projects. I also drew a hierarchy of income streams.

I updated [[My livelihood system]] by creating a hierarchy of income streams to pursue chronologically.

I read [Laid off? Make sure your next job is a better one](https://www.atlassian.com/blog/productivity/career-pivot-after-layoff-furlough).

While eating tinola at lunch, Lea and I continued watching Maid.

After lunch, I started finalizing my annual review article. I chose my best photos of 2023 to include in the essay. In my vault, I transferred all images to files. Links automatically updated.

After merienda, I went to have a haircut. It was one of the best haircuts I've ever had. I felt great afterwards. Walking after having a haircut is such a different experience. I then bought shawarma to celebrate my monthsary with Lea.

I then walked at Ela–Sandoval–Royal Palm–Mondonedo–Argañosa–Durham–Ward–Juliano.

When I arrived home, Lea and I enjoyed the shawarma together. We talked about her plans of possibly leaving Thea. I washed the dishes, then I went back to fix my website and improve it.

## [[2023-01-17 seeds]]
