---
title: "2023-01-05"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. Benjie, for reminding me to return to LBLP. It's like a playmate telling me subtly to do my next move and continue my game. I love it.
2. Finally starting the Bookbright project and feeling less resistance to do it. Once again, the power of cutting down a large project into tiny actions is the best strategy to make progress.
3. 2022, for all the lessons I learned as I was in the middle of it. I will be forever grateful for the growth and the challenges.

## Affirmation

"2023 will be alright. It doesn't have to be a great year. It's just a year where you will stand your ground and face whatever comes with grace, courage, and resilience. You have everything within you to make this new year awesome."

## Review

I journaled about why I think January and not December is the best month for reflection and setting new goals. I also wrote my plan for moving LBLP forward.

I wrote the following note:
- [[Success is arriving at something that reorganizes how you think or feel]]

I continued my annual review
- I reviewed my life areas and standards and updated them.
- I also finished filling up my life goals masterlist.

I read [How the Writing Inbox Method Can 10x Your Writing Output](https://evchapman.medium.com/how-the-writing-inbox-method-can-10x-your-writing-output-8a3d295765d9) by Ev Chapman. I was quite inspired by the service that this woman is providing.

Lea and I watched Russian Doll while having lunch.

I finished writing the shownotes for SEP 247.

The shoe rack arrived and I fixed it up.

Benjie sent a new photo for LBLP and now we're in BW no. 10.

By 5:30 pm I walked toward Forestry. Lea accompanied up until Vega via Raymundo gate.

In Forestry, I browsed a few comparisons between Obsidian and Logseq.

We had cabbage rolls for dinner.

I started writing my personal narrative vision in the evening.

## [[2023-01-05 seeds]]
