---
title: "2023-01-19"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. Pivot, for having read it in the past and now returning to my awareness.
2. Champy graduating from two of her medications today.
3. Being able to ask Rom for advice.

## Affirmation

"I have people I could approach for help and advice."

## Review

I journaled about the possibility of starting a podcast on book making in the Philippines. I stated two questions related to my pivot project. I wrote that I could run a pilot to test my assumption that combining my writing project with writing job could be detrimental to the project.

I also sent a question about this to Rom. He said that my fear is legitimate and is the reason why he studied other disciplines so that he isn't pressured to make money out of his art.

I finished the poem [[poems/wasak]].

I started reading [[Pivot by Jenny Blake]].

Lea and I continued watching Maid while having lunch.

After lunch, I washed the dishes. Then I started working on SEP 249. I finished the work even before merienda. I had time to read TTT2 Day 1.

By 4:30 pm, Lea and I started walking to Agapita. She went to Savemore to buy ingredients for our lunch tomorrow. I went straight to Embi and Bev's house to deliver the book orders. I earned Php 270. We chatter a bit. I learned that Embi has read Walden and have dreamt of living in the mountains.

I proceeded walking at UP: Royal Palm–Freedom Park–Juliano–Pancho–Viado–Roxas. I sat for a while on the bleachers in front of the UPLB Baseball Field. Then I continued walking at Pili Drive–Aglibut–Dawis–Ela. Early in my walk, I felt this overwhelming sense of gratitude that I am living in LB right now. I continued walking at Lopez to buy dinner at Creisking. I bought Trio pancit. Then I fed the cats and went home.

Back at home, I had dinner while watching Cobra Kai. Lea was still in her meeting. After eating, I continued reading a bit of Pivot. Then I went back to fixing the Acer.

I washed the dishes then prepared for bed.

## [[2023-01-19 seeds]]
