---
title: "2023-02-12"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. Another bright, silent, beautiful morning.
2. Learning that 90% of jobs lost in the US were regained and that the economy bounced back after 3 months.
3. Finishing three ovic updates yesterday.

## Affirmation

"Today, I choose the path of kindness to myself and others."

## Review

I updated my note on [[Love]] using a previous diary entry.

I read [DJing on the hedonic treadmill](https://austinkleon.com/2022/07/12/djing-on-the-hedonic-treadmill/) by Austin Kleon.

I started chatting with Lovelle Almazar.

I continued working on the OVIC interviews. I learned about the state of civic engagement in the US and was exposed to the depth of the police abolition movement. While reading about their vision, I am reminded of anarchy and its belief on what is possible. It touched something within me, something that asks me, am I living based on what my heart knows is possible or have I given up and accepted the status quo?

I had lunch while watching Cobra Kai.

I finished the remaining OVIC interviews while having merienda.

I walked to Forestry via Grove. There were so many people that the walk was suboptimal. Things got better when I was reaching Forestry, particularly when I started hearing the birds and the insect sounds. While there, I realized  how important Nature is for my spirituality and well-being, but also that I am not spending enough time in it.

I went home after buying some food.

I read the essay [[Why the simple life is not just beautiful, it’s necessary - Emrys Westacott]] while eating a tasty corndog wrapped with potato cubes.

Lea and I ate tacos for dinner.

I played more Underlords after dinner. Then I prepared to sleep and slept by 12 mn.

I discovered TextsHQ.

## [[2023-02-12 seeds]]
