---
title: "2023-01-24"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. This opportunity to reconnect with Jay Vee after three years. This is a sad time to reconnect but I am happy this is happening.
2. Having my father around despite everything.
3. Getting more clarity as the day passes by.

## Affirmation

"I live in the present moment. The present moment is a gift."

## Review

I journaled about how January 2023 has been tough.

I paid my credit card bill.

I continued reading and doing the exercises at Pivot. I finalized my vision. I listed a summary of my knowns and unknowns. I listed my childhood interests. I created links to the results of my personality assessments.

We had lunch while watching Maid.

After lunch, I applied at Super Summary. This put me back to academic writings I wrote way back and made me realize that I am actually good at this.

I walked to Doña Aurora and enjoyed the brisk evening wind. I bought proven, salad stuff, and turon for dinner.

We had dinner while watching the season finale of Maid.

In the evening, while doing the dishes, I finished listening to the Fizzle Show episode 139 about getting to MVI fast. I then started listening to Episode 150, which is an in-depth episode on MVI. Corbett mentioned something about companies who intentionally cater to a more profitable market at first just to start building money reserve. Then they pivot later on to create what they really want to create. This made me realize that I need to make money fast and the reason why is because it is already affecting my psyche. For me to make money fast, I need to use my strength for now, which is academic writing.

I debated within me whether to attend the introduction call at Proofreading Pal. I read reviews to make a final decision. I didn't like the feeling that I was making a decision from a place of scarcity and didn't like the idea of grinding 30 unpaid projects just to get hired. So I let go of the opportunity.