---
title: "2023-01-20"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. Seeing Embi and Bevs yesterday. Learning that Embi have read Walden and dreamt of living in the mountains.
2. Slowly learning how to fix the Acer correctly.
3. Rom's reply to my question, which affirms my fears based from a seasoned veterans's experience the need to look for jobs outside writing.

## Affirmation

"I will make this pivot relatively flawless."

## Review

I journaled about feeling sick, feeling good talking with Bevs and Embi, fixing the Acer, reading Rom's feedback, returning to editing and proofreading, and the gratitude of living in LB.

I created the following notes:
- [[Observations at Lopez Ave]]
- [[Walking is scouting for what is possible]]
- [[Anecdotes of caring in Los Baños]]

I continued reading Pivot, specifically Chapter 4 on Funding My Runway. I counted how much time I have when using my emergency fund without any income coming in. I have until the end of March 2023 for my emergency fund in cash. But I could stretch this until June 15, 2023 if I am going to dip my hands on my invested emergency fund.

This reflection provided me with the sense of urgency of really finding a consistent source of income in the coming weeks and deciding what skill to use for that. Obviously, editing is starting to become attractive once more.

During lunch, Lea and I continued watching Maid.

After lunch, I went back to trying to fix the Acer. I tried creating a bootable USB to install Windows 10. However, the laptop won't boot from it.

I started reading TTT2 Day 2.

I went to Centro Mall to send Bryan's book. Then I walked to forestry. I sat on a shed for a while and ready Chapter 1 of Pivot. I walked back after and went to Janges to meet Lea for dinner. After dinner, we watched Bridesmaids. It was a really fun movie (4/5).

## [[2023-01-20 seeds]]
