---
title: "2023-01-06"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. Hearing that Jurisvet handles dental issues and that we have a checkup for Champy later afternoon.
2. Feeling okay and calm.
3. The possibility of opening up a service or course related to LMS.

## Affirmation

"I am capable of launching a passion business this 2023!"

## Review

I journaled about the weather, moving the Bookbright project, following Tiago's advice on the PNV, reading Saglit, and doing philosophy without mentioning it.

I wrote the following note:
- [[a series of wonderfully insoluble problems - bobin]]

I asked Lea to look for a vet within LB who could address dental issues. Lea was able to book a 2:30 pm appointment at Jurisvet.

I read [Principes of Patience](https://austinkleon.com/2021/11/03/the-principles-of-patience/).

I started working on researching and updating the Bookbright overviews and I finished one overview. This taught me about gender-neutral parenting and their effects on mental health.

While having lunch, Lea and I watched Russian Doll.

By 2:30 pm, I was already at the vet waiting for Champy's turn. Champy has gingivitis and shall undergo pharmacotherapy. Our bill reached 4,580.

I went home with Champy walking from Agapita to house.

While having merienda, I transferred my personal narrative vision from my journal to Obsidian.

By 5:30 pm, I was out again walking with Lea.

We went home to feed Champy ang give her her medications. Then we watched The Meyerowitz Stories. I like this film.