---
title: "2023-01-22"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. Walking to Dampalit falls for the first time and seeing it with flowing water, watching it for about an hour and just being in the presence of something wonderful.
2. Today. For being alive and for the opportunity to return to San Pablo, hopefully see Sampaloc Lake once more.
3. Being able to process my difficult emotions last night with Lea.

## Affirmation

"I am slowly finding clarity in all these."

## Review

Lea and I traveled to San Pablo. We talked a bit while in the jeep. I told her about my walk to San Pablo. I noticed that the driver was really kind and thoughtful for his passengers. This translated to everyone inside the jeep. We were all helping passengers who had difficulty getting off. In particular, we helped an old couple get off. They had a lot with them. They are street vendors. Seeing people sell on the streets at that age just breaks my heart.

There was a kid and his mother in the jeep. When they entered, I held the kid while his mom was trying to get in with a large bag on her back. The kid looked at me with a curled forehead. Either he was confused that a stranger was holding him or he was mad of it!

When we reached San Pablo, Lea and I walked from Rizal Street up to the viewdeck. We stayed there and ate our KFC burgers. Then we went down to walk along the lake. Lea had taho. I had dirty ice cream. The weather was terribly bipolar. It changed from sunny to rainy in just a matter of a couple of minutes. It was like LB but much worse!

By 12, we met Rio at Jollibee. Mac, her husband, was waiting in the car. We all drove to Casa San Pablo. It felt weird coming back to the Casa. We had lunch at the Cafe, which was my first time to see. I think I saw Ms. Ann. We ordered pizza. I ordered lasagna, Mac had salad, and Lea ordered pasta. We talked about Mariveles, the couple's attempt to migrate to Canada, how they met, the pandemic, etc.

Then we went to their beautiful abode, where they shared how they got a loan in Pag-ibig and how they are coping with Max, their firstborn with mild autism. They were kind enough to drive us to the jeep station. We said thanks.

En route to LB, I finished editing the Dampalit photos, finalized a write up, and shared them on social media. Once again, I received some inspiring feedback.

Lea and I walked from junction to Robinson's then from there to Savemore to buy groceries. I was already very tired.

Back at home, Lea prepared dinner while I rested. I watched an entire episode of Cobra Kai. Then I went back to Ruby to feed the cats.

We had dinnner while watching Maid.

I washed the dishes while listening to a Fizzle Show episode about getting to minimum viable income fast and realized a few things about my situation. 2.5 months without income (I expect to have some via Bookbright) won't be enough to get me to MVI if I rely solely on client work. I need to get clarity on what kind of skills to drill down on and start finding work immediately. This is why I am even more motivated to finish the first chapters of Pivot.

## [[2023-01-22 seeds]]
