---
title: "2023-06-09"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. Reading Maui's message.
2. The opportunity to connect with Louise today.
3. The courage and calm I feel right now.

## Affirmation

"I am very, very brave."

## Review

Met Louise Far at WhyNot Coffee at Cubao to talk.
- We both ate smoked bacon.
- Louise shared about biography work, which I interrogated. She just finished writing a long overdue paper, which is a biography work process for a dead person. She chose an artist who has included movement and therapy in her work. But she said she also considered doing Tolkien.
- We talked about the balance between thinking about society (Joey Ayala) and thinking about self (I forgot her exemplar here).
- She told the story of her workshop at Thailand(?) and her experience with a boy whose life and family she documented. She said that the same boy got older eventually, had a Facebook, and reconnected with Louise through another Filipino artist. They met again eventually but he no longer wanted to be pictured.
- She told the story of how things fall into place for her to create the photography book.
- I was able to share my backstory as an ex JW.
- We talked about walking and how the book I'll be writing could also "walk."

Rode a Grab to bring me to Ateneo.

I checked in at the Ateneo International Residence Hall (IRH) and went to greet my co-fellows Amanda and Hunny with Trinidad. I went upstairs to leave my things then returned to join them at the lobby. We were later joined by Jehu. I remember them talking about how it is working in Ateneo: Trinidad said they were overworked, underpaid. Jehu heard working there wasn't good. Jehu shared a few things about studying abroad; I remember him saying early on that it wasn't a very nice experience.

Later, Jesa and Elio arrived, then Ryan, and together with the others we went to check the buildings where the sessions will be held, namely the Faber Hall Function Room and the Natividad F. Galang Function Room at the Dela Costa Building.

When we arrived at the Dela Costa Building, dinner was ready, so we partook. We were joined by Jhoanna, Marvin, Rika, Amanda's boyfriend, Martin, and others. While eating, we talked about the nature of the workshop and what constitutes hybridity in writing. Marvin also mentioned about the difficulties of going out the campus at night time.

After dinner, we all went back to our rooms. But I contacted Maui and told her we can go out. They were able to go past the guards and I rode with them to UP. Ron was with them.

We parked near the Carillon then walked around half of the Academic Oval before it started drizzling and we had to go back. Our walk was filled with stories about their amazing college days. I was surprised how much of their stories sounded like high school! They really enjoyed their college life. I felt a bit envious. I like the story of the food eating contests, where one of their friends was a pro and Ron beat him once but their friend complained. Also the funny experience of Maui and Ron selling veggie barbecue at the UP fair and forgetting to bring light. They wasted money and had lots of barbecue to eat in the weeks to come. Before that night, they were already counting how much they will be earning. Haha.

Then we went to the University Hotel. There was a library and a free books area where one can get one book for free. I was tempted to get one but really didn't have the space to put it in my bag so I didn't get any. We ate some: green mango shake for each of us then chips. After this, we went home.

I think I read some more then took a bath before sleeping. Ryan was already fast asleep when I arrived.
