---
title: "2023-02-08"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. Seeing Klein and Gerald after around a decade. Catching up and hearing where they have been was surprisingly pleasing.
2. Receiving my pay from Bookbright and receiving a new set of assignment. It is helping me now to relax and be in the moment.
3. Having so sweet nephew and nieces.

## Affirmation

"The rest of February will be great!"

## Review

I woke up around 2:30 am to prepare for my trip home. I said goodbye and thank you to Ate then left.

Our bus left around 3:30 am. I tried sleeping while listening to sleepy Jazz music. We had a stopover at Sison. But after that, the trip was direct.

We arrived at the Cubao station around 8:30 am.

I read [Rewalking Tokyo Again and Again](https://craigmod.com/ridgeline/155/).

The bus to LB arrived and left around 9:00 am. There was a lot of traffic.

While en route to LB, I chatted with Dave who wanted help on his essay. I debated whether to charge or not. I decided to charge since I am tired, I got a lot to do, and it was a rush job. He didn't avail of my offer.

I arrived at Olivarez around 12 then walked to Selina's where Lea was already waiting, drinking her shake. She has ordered sweet and sour fish and yang chow rice. I ordered sisig.

We ate while she shared her recent trip to Cavite.

After lunch, we bought a few groceries and cat food then we walked home.

At home, I rested and slept until around 5 pm. I had merienda while playing Underlords. Then I walked at Ruby–Velasco–Narra–Juliano–Royal Palm–UPLB Oblation–Sandoval–CAS–Capinpin–CEM.

When I arrived home, Lea and I had dinner while watching Teenage Bounty Hunters.

After this, I washed the dishes then reconciled my fund and the couple fund. I received my payment for the trial run of the OVIC updates.

I prepared to sleep and slept.

## [[2023-02-08 seeds]]
