---
title: "2023-02-15"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. Being able to have another difficult money conversation with Lea, and making it through.
2. Playing sequence.
3. Getting some ideas and tough questions to answer yesterday during my conversations with Lea.

## Affirmation

"Everything is figureoutable."

## Review

In my journal, I listed the most important activities I can do every day. I re-affirmed that the goal is to get to a consistent income as soon as possible by capitalizing on already profitable skills I have: writing, editing, and researching. I also wrote [[Over-attachment to an identity encourages close-mindedness]].

I also started looking into som [[Online English Jobs]]. This gave me a bit of a grasp of the current free agent landscape for ESL teachers, especially among Filipinos. I read about Best Teacher. I found the sige oetjobs.com helpful. I also discovered Writers Work.

ESL teachers are generally underpaid and most probably exploited.

While having lunch, Lea and I watched Community.

I tried applying at Tutor.com but was rejected because they weren't really accepting tutors outside of the United States.

While having merienda, I read [[The Free Agent Ecosystem by Tiago Forte]] and took notes.

I played Underlords.

Then I walked at Pili Drive where I had lots of insights.

During dinner, I asked Lea about the Tribe way of doing freelancing. According to her, everything starts with nailing my offer and my target market. After this, I need to optimize my profiles on platforms where my potential clients are spending their time. I need to connect with them and start engaging. Then once they express a need that I can fill, invite them into a discovery call, where we can start the sales process.

After dinner, I played Underlords.

Then I reconciled my fund and the couple fund.

It was difficult for me to sleep.

## [[2023-02-15 seeds]]
