---
title: "2023-01-01"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. The wonderful gratitude walk I did yesterday.
2. Spending the New Year again with Lea quietly.
3. This quiet LB morning inside the campus.

## Affirmation

"2023 will be the best year yet. I know that challenges will come. But I will face them with grace and equanimity."

## Review

After waking up, Lea and I walked to Freedom Park to start our annual review process. We started by writing a comprehensive gratitude list. I went back to my monthly reports to build my list, which I already started yesterday. I wasn't able to finish. We meditated then walked back home to have lunch.

We continued watching Russian Doll while eating what was left yesterday from our New Year's eve food.

After lunch, I bought a new brand of digestive enzymes supplement. I also continued my morning routine tasks.

I then took an hour of rest. After which, I started my monthly financial review. I started by reconciling the couple fund first and fixing problems in our budget.

I took a bath then had merienda while reading Austin Kleon's [100 things that made my year (2022)](https://austinkleon.com/2022/12/29/100-things-that-made-my-year-2022/).

I then fixed Vince's fund, readjusted our budget with some items in the Couple Fund, then sent my contribution to it.

I then went to a one-hour walk at UP. I walked toward Ela—Rambutan—Pili—Aglibut—Royal Palm.

Back at home, we had dinner while watching Stutz.

I spent 30 minutes writing a page in my journal (a gratefulness review of the day) and preparing activities for the morning for both me and Lea. Then I started my evening routine to sleep.

## [[2023-01-01 seeds]]
