---
title: "2023-01-04"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. Lea coming back safely yesterday and seemingly assertive and clear in her boundaries.
2. The insight that came to me last night after taking a bath about the importance of annual reviews for insight generation.
3. Aggregating my annual review report and writing a complete gratitude list out of it.

## Affirmation

"I am capable of writing excellent updates for the Bookbright overviews."

## Review

I journaled about the insight that came to me last night after taking a shower: the insight that insight is precious because it comes in unexpected moments and it comes only after repeatedly returning to the same problem or looking at writings that expand several months or even years.

I wrote the following note:
- [[We pursue values or ends based on priority]]

I read [Giving It Away](https://www.forbes.com/2006/11/30/cory-doctorow-copyright-tech-media_cz_cd_books06_1201doctorow.html) by Cory Doctorow.

While waiting for lunch, I continued watching Katla.

While having lunch, Lea and I continued watching Russian Doll.

I started the Bookbright Overview project by doing and initial reading of all the overviews and writing notes on what to update and do for each.

I then switched to answering the Past and Coming Year questions for my annual review.

While waiting for the rain to stop, I continued watching Katla.

When the rain stopped, I went out for a walk to Pili Drive. It was a relaxing, centering walk, producing a single seed.

I bought dinner at Savemore and saw Claire at the entrance when I was about to exit but didn't greet her.

At home, we had dinner while watching Apollo 10 1/2.

I played one game of ML as jungler Leomord and won again.

## [[2023-01-04 seeds]]