---
title: "2023-06-10"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. 

## Affirmation

## Review

After breakfast, I sat down on my chair and I was beside [[contacts/vincenz serrano]]. Said hi to him and exchanged a few words about my work. "But more on that tomorrow," I heard him say.

The workshop started with [[ANWW20 Opening Remarks Allan Derain]]. There were some comments from the panelists after then fellows were given the chance to introduced themselves and share their first reactions to the call for papers.

After this, we had a break then we immediately proceeded with [[ANWW20 Ryan Alcarde]].

Then we had a lunch break where I had a long conversation with [[Elio Garcia]] about the plight of having multiple languages and how to use this as an asset.

Then we proceeded with [[ANWW20 Amanda Cruz]].

After the session, we had snacks then went to see the Ateneo Gallery for free.

When we came back after about an hour, we listened to [[ANWW20 Lecture Jhoanna Lynn Cruz]]. I expressed my inspiration from listening to her talk and asked her how her writing may have affected her identity. She said it is a good question but she will come back to it.

We had dinner after and I talked with Amanda and Ryan about their experiences going through the process on the first day.

After this, I waited for Ryan to come back from yosi break and we both went back to our room. He had to leave to meet friends and slept at their home at UP, so I had the room all by myself for the night. I used that time to relax and to prepare for the big day tomorrow.