---
title: "2023-01-12"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. My walk last night with Lea. I know it was a bit filled with tension but I am glad it clarified what I have to expect in the coming days in terms of how much work I need to look for and whether or not I will continue with Lea's LMS.
2. Finishing my application to Proofreading Pal.
3. Leads to people I have to talk to: Ka Icktoy, Maui, and Sir Rofel.

## Affirmation

"I am blessed by archetypes. All I need is to talk to them."

## Review

I journaled about writing the annual review article and preparing poems to be submitted to TLDTD. I also wrote about possible plans after the TLDTD deadline.

I changed my default browser to Firefox and deleted Chrome.

I read [Kickstartup — Notes on successful Fundraising with Kickstarter and the (re)making of Art Space Tokyo — by Craig Mod](https://craigmod.com/journal/kickstartup/#ref-1).

While having lunch, Lea and I continued watching the second season of Russian Doll.

I browsed the website of The Spark Project and saw some successful book crowdfunding projects.

In the afternoon, I did SEP 248 while having merienda. Through the podcast, I learned how to approach an angry complaining person and how not to apologize.

I walked at Ela–Oñate–Aglibut–Pili Drive–Argañosa–Madamba–Viado–Roxas–Juliano–Freedom Park–Modendo–Royal Palm.

While at Pili Drive, I looked for a small ippon ura that should lead me to Aglibut. There is! At Roxas, I stayed for a while at the bleachers overlooking a dark softball field.

I bought a pares overload order for dinner. It was okay but overrated. I might not buy one again next time.

I started watching Cobra Kai at dinner.

After dinner, I started writing my annual review article. I actually thought about not writing one, but after I reviewed the 2021 article, I realized I changed the process last year, and I ought to continue it.

I played two ML games before sleeping and I won both.