---
title: "2023-01-14"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. Hope. Shawn, surprisingly, has given me some hope. I definitely could make a business component out of this. But I can't rush it if I want it to feel right. So there are two business ideas here. But they have to still be tested: a photobook business or an LMS business.
2. The realization that I still really need to establish a day job of sorts to feel grounded and secure in pursuing creative ideas.
3. Just being alive and getting through another day.

## Affirmation

"I am an archetype for others."

## Review

I journaled about finishing writing the annual review article but sharing it when I am ready, returning to poetry, and the two business ideas I have: LMS and photo books. I then asked the question how do I brand my offering.

I modified some old notes:
- [[Possible common themes in How to Live research]]
- [[There is no one way to live a life]]
- [[Action is the most important concept in understanding how to live]]
- [[Most questions people ask are about how to live]]
- [[thoughts/how to live?]]
- [[A model for answering the question how to live]]

I also continued writing my [[2022 annual review]].

I read [Angry and Curious (a Zine)](https://austinkleon.com/2020/06/04/angry-and-curious-a-zine/). 

On lunch, Lea and I watched the second to the last episode of the season 2 of Russian Doll.

I started watching [[thoughts/billy collins]]' poetry masterclass and writing my notes in [[thoughts/billy collins masterclass]].

By 5:30 pm, I started walking at Ela–Rambutan–Pili Drive–Madamba–Viado–Pancho–Freedom Parf–Royal Palm.

At dinner, Lea and I watched the season finale of Russian Doll season 2.

After dinner, I continued watching Billy Collins' masterclass. Then, I edited the poem [[poems/today i buried a kitten]] using advice I learned from Billy Collins.

I also received confirmation that Craig Mod is extending my scholarship to another year.

Also, Proofreading Pal has returned with the resulsts of my test. I didn't make the cut. But they are offering me a slot for training.

## [[2023-01-14 seeds]]
