---
title: "2023-03-17"
---
## I am grateful for:
1. Having this free day that I could use to continue my meta-learning project and finally finishing cleaning the house.
2. The possibility of joining a writing retreat with Sir Rofel Brion.
3. Being able to tolerate my recent tapering experiment of just taking 1/4 sertraline.

## Affirmation

"I am a spring of compassion."

## Review

In my journal, I wrote some thoughts on [[Non-attachment]] and my intention to return to the metalearning project on improving my proofreading and editing skills.

I returned to my meta-learning project for improving my editing and proofreading skills. I started by digging information from Scribbr. My research reaffirmed two resources: The Copyeditor's Handbook and the Poynter's Certificate in Editing course. I also discovered Merriam Webster's Dictionary of English Usage as a resource. I learned about what is required for me as a general editor. I wrote my notes in [[Scribbr]].

I also researched about [Proofreading Services](https://www.proofreadingservices.com/).

Researching about both platforms covinced me that I may have to focus my training on two areas:
- Grammar (including punctuation and usage)
- Providing feedback via comments

I cooked ginisang black beans for lunch and ate it while watching Cobra Kai.

In the afternoon, I vaccuumed downstairs, then while having merienda, started composing my message to Claire.

I played Underlords then walked to Forestry where I had some insights about being brave and doing something I love and close to who I am everyday, even if I haven't fully solved my livelihood problem.

I also learned that Sir Rofel is holding a writing retreat at Casa San Pablo on April 1. So I inquired and asked for details, which he provided

I had dinner while watching Cobra Kai, then played some more Underlords.

I then did other household chores. While washing the dishes and mopping downstairs, I listened to [a podcast episode from The Publish and Preserve Podcast discussing the use of autoethnography](https://podcasts.apple.com/qa/podcast/episode-7-publish-and-persevere-autoethnography/id1598936597?i=1000574570074). I also listened to [a podcast episode interview with William Ury about resolving conflict](https://simonsinek.com/podcast/episodes/resolving-conflict-with-william-ury/).

I then finalized my message to Claire, which I sent, before going to sleep.
