---
Date: [[2021-10-18]]
Study: Luke 16-18
---

Last class really resonated, especially the part of class about having to replace a demon with something else. Of course, by demon, I can mean just about anything bad, like a habit, an acivity, a set of thoughts, an attitude, even people and time. I thought about habits that I'm trying to form right now. I need to find things that replace the bad thought patterns that lead me to wasting so much time on social media and such. Like, I'm stressed about how much I need to do, so often I feel like I need to take some sort of break. If that's the case, I can think up better ways to take a break, really. It's not so hard, I just go on a walk or eat something or use duolingo or watch some good youtube videos. I can think about homework in a positive way, filling my need for ease and positivity by having it in my everyday work. 

Frankly, I'm confused about Luke 16. If I recall correctly, the point was that if you're gonna lose somewhere, be even more faithful and focus elsewhere, so that somebody will take you. Like, it seems like he's saying, "people are smart these days. If you're gonna sin, might as well ally yourself with this sinners, really send it."
Luke 17:24 = cool visual, but what???

The Kingdom of God is within us? That's a very protestant vibe. Like, I remember talking to a lot of people on my mission that were like, there isn't one true church, because the kingdom of God is within me. I feel like that may be a good interpretation, but there's something missing. I'd say that our church simply isn't the whole Kingdom, but it's like the yeast in bread. We're the called servants to influence the world and to prepare for the second coming. There's not even that many of us. 