---
Date: [[2021-10-25]]
Study: John 5-8
---

Question: I heard online that the idea that Jesus even claimed to be the messiah or God is in historical dispute. That makes sense, too, considering that both the Jews and the Muslims believe many things about him, but can exclude the idea that he is literally God. It was said that many of the records of the more grandiose claims happened much later than the rest. 
Personally, the argument is unconvincing, since there was lots of fulfillment of prophecy, and hinting that Christ does early on. It also supports the LDS view, since it really was the nicean creed that created society's conception of who the Christ is.  ^89ffc1

5:41 - it's not worth it to try to get your honor from men. Christ's example is a good one. Our sense of purpose and value ought to be entirely seperate from the world and everything in it. It's a lot like what ralph waldo emerson used to say about individualism. History can be boiled down into the biographies of few powerful people that didn't let themselves be swayed by the rest of the world.
47: get wrecked
6:27 is a good quote about money.  ^7cd131
> Labour not for the meat which perisheth

Working for food and money is lame. If I can get away with it, I'll work for things that help people get into heaven. That's the real stuff. 
> it is the spirit that quickeneth; the flesh profiteth nothing. 

Am I just being told to not worry about money?? Like, these are the passages that jump out to me. 

It's crazy that Jesus is so quickly hated by all of his people. it says: "and the jews sought to kill him"

John 7 really expresses the ruckus that Jesus caused. 
It's interesting, because everybody was still making up their minds about Jesus of Nazareth, so the church leaders had to try and expose him publicly, first. If they didn't, they'd have no grounds to kill him. 
8:25 -  They have no idea that they're literally interrogating their *God*. That's bonkers to me. 
58 - do they realize now??