---
Date: [[2021-11-01]]
Study: BD; Bethphage; Caesar; Fig tree; Frontlets or Phylacteries; Herodians; Levirate Marriage Videos: The Lord's Triumphal Entry into Jerusalem (1:07); Jesus Cleanses the Temple (1:35) Scripture Reading: Matthew 21-23; Mark 11-12; Luke 19-20
---

I always thought that Caesar was actually a name. No, it was a title, apparently. 
I looked it up. It was a cognomen?? Passed on to multiple emperors. Started out as Julius Caesar's last name or nickname.

If the Herodians were against the romans but also against the purely religious theocracy, who were they for?? Just the Herodian family ruling? Is this the family of King Herod?
Either way, the pharisees teaming up with the Herodians to ask Christ about something they disagreed about was an attempt to get him to take sides and divide people against him. Taking sides would have gained him extra enemies one way or another. 
It's said that in the resurrection they neither marry or are given in marriage, but are as angels. The church position on this is that the marriage happens in life, or before the resurrection?? Idk, defense for the principle of celestial marriage feels pretty flimsy, logically. I have better reasons for believing in celestial marriage, but what was Jesus trying to say, here? Was he just giving a simpler answer, since he may have not wanted to explain the whole plan of salvation just then?


matt 21:43 the kingdom of God shall be given to another. Is that us? Was that the gentiles? 
Even more intense question: could that ever be us?
46 - why was that question so intimidating?? nobody _ever_ asked him another question??

D&C 132:15-17 does its best to explain the marriage question. It seems like Christ was speaking in the context of the type of marriage the Jews were familiar with and talking about at the time. 

Jesus totally turns the same tactic used when they asked him about the romans. He asks them about John, another divisive topic that would have lost the cheif priests, scribes and elders credibility and support with half the population. 
Wait, idk about the order of that. Maybe he did it to them first, and then when they tried to clap back later, it was responded to well. Maybe it wasn't even the same people. The caesar question came from pharisees and herodians, maybe they were the same chief priests, scribes and elders?

Mark 12:34
> Thou art not far from the kingdom of God.

What a thing to hear from Jesus Christ!!

Does only luke have the parable of the talents?

Ooh, luke speaks of the marriage question pretty differently. The content remains the same, though, I guess. Just he phrasing is different. 
