---
Date: [[2021-11-03]]
Study: BD Abomination of Desolation  Olives, Mount of, or Olivet Matthew 24-25 Mark 13 Luke 21
---

Abomination of Desolation sounds pretty evil, but also pretty vague. It's timing is the only thing that's clear. Perhaps it points toward the general trend of wickedness increasing nowadays, and towards it inevitable consequences of the quality of life going down. People will likely less charitable and more demanding. Idk, it sounds like you'd be able to see it better if you studied the histories of societies that once were particularly degenerate. 

mount of olives is an important place. focal point, pay attention.

Parable of the talents matthew 25, perhaps my favorite story. I want to be an active agent in life, and if God tells me to make the most of what I've been give, I can personally put all my energy into that. 
Take care of people who have huge problems like hunger and sickness, and you're doing what the Lord has asked of you. 

Yeah these scriptures are all super end-of-times. Like, they're especially talking about how things will be bad at the end. Will they be that bad? Like the current times were foretold to be pretty bad, but they aren't for me. Maybe I'm in the righteous group? Like the wickedness will be pretty high, so maybe my level of righteousness just needs to be maintained and I'll have a great time. Technology is increasing, general wealth is increasing. Maybe the end times will be perfectly comfortable for the righteous. Christ keeps saying to just ditch. People will be fleeing, but to where? maybe a good place. We should just take heed, watch and pray and be good. 

All the people came early in the morning to see Jesus. He was popular, and people could tell that He was saying important stuff. 