[[2021-11-11]]

John 14 is really good about detailing what the Spirit is and what it does. 
Is the Holy Spirit a man or a woman? Gender is an attribute of the soul, right? Or is the Holy Spirit an exception? 

It's said that the love of God is unconditional, but it doesn't seem like it based off of the scriptures. John 14:21 says that the person that keeps Christ's commandments is the person that loves God and is loved by Christ. Are these scriptures just rhetorical?
The peace from God is unlike anything you can acheive in the world. 
Why is the devil called the prince of this world? What's the origin of that phrase, and why not the king, or the scum? 

John 15 - we are branches off of Christ. It's cool because we can be His influence in the world. Like, he's not here, but he can send me to do all of the same stuff. 
There it is again - John 15:17 says that we are his friends if we do what he commands us. 
Now, I am truly faithful, but it's like, where's the unconditional love? 
Maybe it's not the way I thought it was. Or maybe it's a way of explaining the state of the disobedient, as much as it might break his heart. 
It seems like Jesus is really only being super clear near the end of his ministry. As the intensity heats up, so does the truths revealed and the progress made. There's a natural flow for this chain of events. A lifetime of preparation, a few years of winding up, and then a super intense week and the redemption of all mankind. An absolute blast of a story, with consequences that spean eternity. He truly overcomes the world, as said in 16:33.


John 17: He speaks in parallels, talking about what God has done, and then what he has done in the same way. The pattern was extended earlier in the scripture. The Son does as the Father does, and we do as he has, as the prophet does, as my dad does, as my mom does, as I do, as my friends do, and so on. It passes on. And then we become as one. And then we become perfect. All bound by love.