
Interesting. Judas told them he would betray Jesus in the absence of the multitude. He probably did that so that like the people that liked him wouldn't see the leaders of the Jews taking him to be killed. It would have been safer that way for all of the perpetrators since the crowds of people that typically came to watch Jesus wouldn't be there. 
What's interesting, is that the people in Jerusalem were prepared for Jesus to come and eat the Passover with them. There was work done previously by Angels, or by God himself orchestrating everything, that made it so that everything would work out just right for everything that happened in Jesus's life.
Why, if they are all being taught by jesus, did they want to be counted the greatest? Did they learn any humility?
Then Simon was called. And in the most humble way, too. Jesus recognized that Simon was fallible and that Satan was trying to bring him down. It was then that he indirectly told Simon or Peter that he was in charge, but in a way that underscored his importance in strengthening everybody.

Yep, the problem with inciting the people is specifically mentioned in Matthew. 

They sang a hymn before the atonement!!
I like the commentary that was made about Peter's denial. It's been said that he was actually commanded to deny Christ. That's why he wept, because it broke his heart to do so but he needed to survive so he could lead the church in Jesus' stead. 

How much is 300 pence? Is pence an English translation? What was the Jewish currency?
Is it confirmed that it was Judas that complained about the price? 
It really does seem like Jesus would've rather had her serve the poor than go through extravagant celebrations of Christ, given his humility. In today's time, for example, should I build a monument to Jesus, or sacrifice a million dollars to fire, or should I give to the poor?

It's interesting because the weight of what Jesus was about to do was visibly alarming to him. He wasn't stoic the whole time, nor unfazed. It was intense. 

What's with the naked guy? Is it just to give an idea of the chaos. 

Peter got really frustrated with being accused of being a follower of Christ. He cursed and swore.  Is that the same meaning that curse and swear has nowadays??

Also, what was the og term for atonement? Was it nearly as cool as At-One-ment? Unlikely, but I'm willing to investigate. 