---
Date: [[2021-11-27]]
Study: 
- BD: Ascension; Emmaus; Miracles; Resurrection  
- Videos: Christ Appears on the Road to Emmaus (3:33); Feed My Sheep (5:45)
- Mark 16; Matt 28; Luke 24; John 20-21
---
Are all angels young? I imagine that they didn't mean a teenager, but that the angel appeared as a person at optimal health, which by my best guess is the early 20s. I say that because an angel probably wouldn't have any symptoms of aging, but would still be fully grown. A full hairline, not a single wrinkle, smooth and healthy skin, and all of that. They would look like a young man or woman. 

If Jesus was *resurrected*, why on earth would they try and cover that up? They had a firsthand account of a literal angel, and they decided to just pay off the people that saw it. They were truly blind. 
Why would Matthew need to mention that the saying had been commonly reported among the Jews?

I marked Matthew 28:19 on my mission, probably because, among many instructions on how to conduct missionary work, this is the original. Perhaps it's the most important one, too.

maybe it was a bit sexist that the apostles didn't believe the women that went to the tomb. I'll bet people across history reading this passage were humbled a bit when reading this and recalling their own interactions with the women in their lives.

Is Luke the only one that talks about the road to emmaus?

v. 36 what an entrance

v. 51 and a literally glorious exit.

I know that other people have ascended to heaven instead of dying. That would be a great way to go. I should aspire to live my life in such a way that instead of dying, I get to just wander into the wilderness and ascend in a chariot of fire or just disappear.
