---
Date: [[2021-11-27]]
Study: "- Videos: Peter and John Heal a Man Crippled Since Birth (3:22); Peter and John Continue Preaching the Gospel (5:38); Peters Revelation to Take the Gospel to the Gentiles (9:03)- Acts 1-5; 10, 12, 3 Nephi 11"
---

You got to wonder, if the Jews in Jerusalem had experienced a great disaster, and then seeing Christ coming down from heaven, they might have believed him. Maybe they're challenge was truly supposed to be harder, as far as actually believing in Jesus Christ. I hope they get another chance in the next life. Before they're judged finally. Of course, in the nephites case, they were only the people that were left after the wicked were destroyed. So, only people that would probably have believed in Jesus Christ remained.

Jesus was so prescriptive about baptism and the book of Mormon. Was he ever so specific about exactly how baptism was supposed to go to the 12 apostles? It certainly doesn't seem like we have any record of it. Especially since many Christian sects don't really agree on all of that.

The story of Judas is especially sad. I just want to hear that, in the end everything went well and he still went to heaven. I feel like there's probably something in the scriptures to refute that, though. Just breaks your heart.

How often have churches done the 'all things common' thing?
Why do some people get to be healed and not others? How many sick and afflicted were there in Jerusalem and all around? It seems like it as always about showing God's power and his chosen messengers.
Christ's name through faith is what worked those miracles. The verse certainly gives credence to the protestants who claim that no authority is necessary in the Lord's Kingdom. I'm inclined to agree with them, but with the caveat that God really did create an organization here, too. It's just that it's not a necessary prerequisite to performing miracles. 